  A Pimco managing director added his voice to the chorus of energy  experts saying $50 per barrel is the magic number for crude oil  on Wednesday.   Brent and WTI crude futures traded at around$49.10 and $46.35  respectively on Wednesday, having steadily gained since Friday on  renewed speculation OPEC may yet freeze production.   "We think the right price over the next couple of years — we  are pretty close to the right price — is in the  fifties. That is where supply and demand gets balanced," Mihir  Worah, Pimco CIO of real return and asset allocation, told  CNBC.   WTI futures have gained around 11 percent since the start of the  year, but remain sharply below the levels above $100 traded at  prior to the massive commodities rout that began in July  2014.   This year's rocky ride in crude prices has hinged on fears  regarding the global supply glut, China's economic slowdown and  the impact on energy demand and hints as to future trends in  production.   OPEC members will hold an informal meeting in September, amid  speculation that the Saudi Arabia-led group of major  oil-producing countries will finally agree to limit production in  order to boost global oil prices. This will come after recent  discussions between Russia and Saudi Arabia in Vienna.    "As far as the Saudi-Russian OPEC meeting, we think it is just  headlines. Both the Saudis and the Russians are pumping pretty  much as much as they can. So freezing output is fairly  meaningless," Worah told CNBC.  "But as we start getting above 50, then you start getting  incremental supply in the United States. We think somewhere in  the fifties is the right price for the next six to 12 months."  Malcolm Graham-Wood, the founder of HydroCarbon Capital and a  well-known oil analyst, described $50 as the "magic" number for  crude prices in his daily blog on Wednesday.   Emerging market-focused bank, Renaissance Capital, has said $50  crude is the ideal price for Russian energy companies and  Egyptian Minister of Trade and Industry Tarek Kabil told CNBC in  June that $50-$55 per barrel was the "sweet spot" for Egypt.UBS said on Tuesday that it saw front-month WTI averaging $43.81  in 2016 and $57.00 in 2017. That is narrowly above consensus  forecasts for $43.30 this year and $54.25 next and further above  BNP Paribas predictions for $40 and $50, respectively.  Worah said the oil rout was likely over and that investors should  consider the possible upward impact on global inflation.   "Inflation I think is actually the sleeper. A lot of people are  ignoring it, but leading with the U.S., we are starting to see  output gaps close; the commodity correction, as you said, and the  oil correction is probably behind us. So this is something people  are not worried about, but may creep up behind us in the next  couple of years," he told CNBC.   Official data on Tuesday showed U.K. inflation came in higher  than expected in July, gaining 0.6 percent on the year, compared  with a 0.5 percent rise in June. The rise was in part driven by a  decline in sterling, particularly against the  U.S. dollar, since the U.K. surprised markets by voting to leave  the European Union in a referendum on June 23. Worah said the U.S. Federal Reserve must consider the impact of  dollar strength on the global economy as it debates when to make  its next interest rate hike. U.S. inflation came in unchanged in  July, but a rise in industrial and housebuilding activity  suggests a pickup in the economy that might allow the Fed to  raise rates later in 2016.   "As far as the Fed is concerned, we think it might hike once this  year. But whether they hike zero times or once this year is not  that important. What is important is the Fed has realized that  even as they hike, they have got to watch global financial  conditions and the dollar," Worah told CNBC.  "They cannot let the dollar appreciate too much; it tightens  global financial conditions to much, it is not good for the U.S.,  it is not good for anyone."  Inflation-protected bonds — known as TIPS in the U.S. —  may be an attractive investment for those wishing to hedge  against inflation, with prices low compared to most government  bonds, Worah added.    "Most government bond yields are so low that people do not want  to buy them; TIPS, because nobody is worried about inflation, are  still relatively cheap. So we think that is quite an attractive  investment right now," he told CNBC.   Follow CNBC International on Twitter and Facebook.