20 Fossil Fuel Companies Generate One Third Of All Global Emissions 
10102019

1626
CO2New data compiled by the United States-based Climate Accountability Institute and revealed by the Guardian confirms what many already know: at the core of the climate crisis is the fossil fuel industry. The crucial finding from the analysis is that 20 oil, gas and coal companies can be directly linked to over one third of all energy industry greenhouse gases in modern history. Despite knowing the destruction and dangers their activities pose to our planet and people, fossil fuel companies have been driving climate change and hold the key to avoiding impending disaster. What this points to is the urgent need for divestment, in spite of skepticism amongst some leaders.A team of researchers at the Climate Accountability Institute, led by Richard Heede, have traced the role of big oil on our current climate emergency since 1965, the year which the environmental impact of fossil fuels became known to global industry heads and politicians. Their main finding is that 20 companies have contributed to 35% of all energy-related carbon dioxide and methane globally, which equates to 480 billion tonnes of carbon dioxide since 1965. Out of all these emissions produced by the 20 companies, 90% were generated from their petrol, jet fuel, natural gas and thermal coal operations, while the rest were from extraction and delivering fuels.
 
At the top of the list of the worst 20 polluting companies include well-known oil brands like Chevron, Exxon, BP and Shell - these four corporations alone are accountable for 10% of global carbon emissions since 1965. The list also featured 12 state-owned corporations, including Russia's Gazprom and Saudi Arabia's Aramco.
Source: greenqueen.com.hk
A team of researchers at the Climate Accountability Institute, led by Richard Heede, have traced the role of big oil on our current climate emergency since 1965, the year which the environmental impact of fossil fuels became known to global industry heads and politicians. Their main finding is that 20 companies have contributed to 35% of all energy-related carbon dioxide and methane globally, which equates to 480 billion tonnes of carbon dioxide since 1965. Out of all these emissions produced by the 20 companies, 90% were generated from their petrol, jet fuel, natural gas and thermal coal operations, while the rest were from extraction and delivering fuels. At the top of the list of the worst 20 polluting companies include well-known oil brands like Chevron, Exxon, BP and Shell - these four corporations alone are accountable for 10% of global carbon emissions since 1965. The list also featured 12 state-owned corporations, including Russia's Gazprom and Saudi Arabia's Aramco.Source: greenqueen.com.hk