252 chargers for electric vehicles until 2020 will be provided within NEXT-E project 
20112017

1635
Electricity MarketNEXT-E project will supply 222 fast (50 kW) and 30 ultra-fast (150-350 kW) chargers for electric vehicles for Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, Slovenia, Croatia and Romania by the end of 2020, as reported by Balkan Green Energy News.The installation of chargers will be made along main highways, with a maximum distance of 150 km which will for the first time allow long-distance travel. These will be 100% powered on electricity, across six Central and Eastern Europe (CEE) states. During 2018 and 2019, 59 units will be constructed in Hungary, 58 in Croatia, 40 in Romania, 38 in the Czech Republic, 32 in Slovenia and 25 Slovakia.
 
In July 2017, European Commission chose the NEXT-E project for co-financing via the Connecting Europe Facility (CEF). The NEXT-E platform is executed by electricity and oil firms, such as MOL, E.ON, Power utility Hrvatska elektroprivreda (HEP), Petrol, and two auto producers, Nissan and BMW.
 
Last week, NEXT-E conglomerate inked a grant deal with European Commission's Innovation and Networks Executive Agency (INEA) and obtained 18.84 million euros to complete the project. This is the biggest grant ever given by the EU's Connecting Europe Facility for any EV project.
 
Herald Ruijters, Director of the Directorate B - Investment, Innovative & Sustainable Transport in the Directorate for Mobility and Transport of the European Commission, emphasized that the EU policy goal is to finally offer people the possibility to travel with alternatively fueled vehicles within the entire European Union.
 
The Connecting Europe Facility (CEF) is an important EU funding tool designed particularly to manage investments into European transport, energy, and digital infrastructures to tackle identified missing links and blockages.
 
The installation of chargers will be made along main highways, with a maximum distance of 150 km which will for the first time allow long-distance travel. These will be 100% powered on electricity, across six Central and Eastern Europe (CEE) states. During 2018 and 2019, 59 units will be constructed in Hungary, 58 in Croatia, 40 in Romania, 38 in the Czech Republic, 32 in Slovenia and 25 Slovakia. In July 2017, European Commission chose the NEXT-E project for co-financing via the Connecting Europe Facility (CEF). The NEXT-E platform is executed by electricity and oil firms, such as MOL, E.ON, Power utility Hrvatska elektroprivreda (HEP), Petrol, and two auto producers, Nissan and BMW. Last week, NEXT-E conglomerate inked a grant deal with European Commission's Innovation and Networks Executive Agency (INEA) and obtained 18.84 million euros to complete the project. This is the biggest grant ever given by the EU's Connecting Europe Facility for any EV project. Herald Ruijters, Director of the Directorate B - Investment, Innovative & Sustainable Transport in the Directorate for Mobility and Transport of the European Commission, emphasized that the EU policy goal is to finally offer people the possibility to travel with alternatively fueled vehicles within the entire European Union. The Connecting Europe Facility (CEF) is an important EU funding tool designed particularly to manage investments into European transport, energy, and digital infrastructures to tackle identified missing links and blockages.
 