9 Traits of Highly Effective Energy Consultants [Infographic] 
20092017

1030
Energy MarketProcuring energy and managing related risks presents businesses with unique challenges unlike any other goods or services they purchase. Besides, energy commodity prices can be extremely volatile. They can go up and down and are susceptible to unpredictable price increases. They're also governed by a complex set of rules and inter-relationships.Therefore, many times businesses and governmental entities opt to utilize the services of an energy consulting firm to help them in managing these complex issues. This has led to an overwhelming proliferation of firms claiming to have energy market expertise. 
 
Amidst all the noise, how do you evaluate and choose energy consultants that will deliver the results you're after? This infographic suggests 9 traits of highly effective energy consultants that will help you separate the signal from the noise and assist you in making the right choice. 
 
 
[Click infographic to enlarge.]
 

 
 
1. They have a solid understanding of energy market dynamics.
From the fundamentals of spot and forward market price dynamics, to the impact of supply and demand on the costs for energy; from the details of the market structure, to the understanding of the regulatory environment, the best energy consultants are subject-matter experts and are usually the go-to person in their specific industry. They make it their business to know what they need to know and they're an unbiased third party, acting in the best interest of their client.
 
2. They're great at communicating complex concepts.
Understanding complex market concepts entails a base level of knowledge and competency, but this alone is insufficient. Great energy consultants will have the ability to communicate complex concepts to clients in a manner that they can understand and that takes into account the client's unique business needs. They're able to strip away all the technical jargon and turn it into actionable data. 
 
3. They're lifelong learners.
The best energy consultants are humble and accepting of the fact that they don't know it all. Most shy away from saying "I don't know." But saying "I don't know" is often a very good answer to a question. An even better answer is "I don't know, but I know people who do know." Or "I don't know, but I will figure it out."
 
Energy consultants don't know everything and should not be expected to know everything. However, they should be expected to have an open mind and eager to upgrade their skills and market knowledge on a regular basis.
 
4. They have an outstanding work ethic.
They do exactly what they said they were going to do, when they said they were going to do it. They're truthful, honest, fair and just in their dealings with clients, team members and anyone else whom they come in contact with. They take 100% complete responsibility for their actions and mistakes and don't blame others. They speak the truth even when no one else does. They give credit freely for others' accomplishments. They're hard working individuals that care deeply about the success of their clients and they deliver outstanding results in all that they do. They show up consistently and they don't stop until the job is done and done right. 
 
5. They have a great attitude.
Business is very similar to a roller coaster ride. There are constant ups and downs, challenges, heartaches, success and failure. But the best energy consultants realize that it's not what happens to them that matters; it's how they choose to respond to what happens that makes the difference. Despite setbacks, they always keep a positive and upbeat attitude. As a result, their positive energy infects all those that they meet and that makes it even more likely that customers will want to do business with them.
 
6. They're great listeners.
They seek first to understand, then to be understood. Before they offer advice or suggest solutions, they do their best to deeply understand their client, their perspective, their needs and concerns. They ask more questions in order to diagnose the problem before prescribing a solution.
 
7. They're problem solvers.
One of the most important skills or qualities of effective energy consultants is the ability to solve problems and make good decisions that lead to more and better results. In fact, success IS the ability to solve problems. And as an energy consultant, you will be asked to solve problems that may be completely new to you--or even completely new to the industry. When you're faced with these tough problems or challenging requirements, it's your ability to quickly and creatively solve problems that will help you succeed. 
 
8. They're great team players.
It's important to establish a collaborative relationship with peers. The best energy consultants demonstrate that they are team players and are willing to learn from team members, genuinely valuing the input and expertise of others. 
 
9. They protect their reputation.
The best energy consultants protect their public reputation above everything else because they're aware that they will not get an easy chance to repair it if it is damaged. They walk away from clients whose operations and methods are not ethical and they only say 'YES'  to the opportunities that are right for them. 
 
Therefore, many times businesses and governmental entities opt to utilize the services of an energy consulting firm to help them in managing these complex issues. This has led to an overwhelming proliferation of firms claiming to have energy market expertise.  Amidst all the noise, how do you evaluate and choose energy consultants that will deliver the results you're after? This infographic suggests 9 traits of highly effective energy consultants that will help you separate the signal from the noise and assist you in making the right choice.   [Click infographic to enlarge.]   From the fundamentals of spot and forward market price dynamics, to the impact of supply and demand on the costs for energy; from the details of the market structure, to the understanding of the regulatory environment, the best energy consultants are subject-matter experts and are usually the go-to person in their specific industry. They make it their business to know what they need to know and they're an unbiased third party, acting in the best interest of their client.Understanding complex market concepts entails a base level of knowledge and competency, but this alone is insufficient. Great energy consultants will have the ability to communicate complex concepts to clients in a manner that they can understand and that takes into account the client's unique business needs. They're able to strip away all the technical jargon and turn it into actionable data. The best energy consultants are humble and accepting of the fact that they don't know it all. Most shy away from saying "I don't know." But saying "I don't know" is often a very good answer to a question. An even better answer is "I don't know, but I know people who do know." Or "I don't know, but I will figure it out." Energy consultants don't know everything and should not be expected to know everything. However, they should be expected to have an open mind and eager to upgrade their skills and market knowledge on a regular basis. They do exactly what they said they were going to do, when they said they were going to do it. They're truthful, honest, fair and just in their dealings with clients, team members and anyone else whom they come in contact with. They take 100% complete responsibility for their actions and mistakes and don't blame others. They speak the truth even when no one else does. They give credit freely for others' accomplishments. They're hard working individuals that care deeply about the success of their clients and they deliver outstanding results in all that they do. They show up consistently and they don't stop until the job is done and done right.  Business is very similar to a roller coaster ride. There are constant ups and downs, challenges, heartaches, success and failure. But the best energy consultants realize that it's not what happens to them that matters; it's how they choose to respond to what happens that makes the difference. Despite setbacks, they always keep a positive and upbeat attitude. As a result, their positive energy infects all those that they meet and that makes it even more likely that customers will want to do business with them. They seek first to understand, then to be understood. Before they offer advice or suggest solutions, they do their best to deeply understand their client, their perspective, their needs and concerns. They ask more questions in order to diagnose the problem before prescribing a solution. One of the most important skills or qualities of effective energy consultants is the ability to solve problems and make good decisions that lead to more and better results. In fact, success IS the ability to solve problems. And as an energy consultant, you will be asked to solve problems that may be completely new to you--or even completely new to the industry. When you're faced with these tough problems or challenging requirements, it's your ability to quickly and creatively solve problems that will help you succeed.  It's important to establish a collaborative relationship with peers. The best energy consultants demonstrate that they are team players and are willing to learn from team members, genuinely valuing the input and expertise of others.  The best energy consultants protect their public reputation above everything else because they're aware that they will not get an easy chance to repair it if it is damaged. They walk away from clients whose operations and methods are not ethical and they only say 'YES'  to the opportunities that are right for them.  