  French oil giant  is expected to sign a deal Tuesday with   to develop the country's largest natural gas field, paving the way for Western oil companies' return to the Persian Gulf country.  Total would be the first European integrated oil  company to sign a contract to develop Iranian oil or gas assets after the lifting of sanctions on Tehran  earlier this year. The deal would also advance Iran's goal of  tapping its vast oil and natural gas reserves, which are the  fourth and second largest in the world, respectively.  Total will lead a consortium that includes China National  Petroleum Corp. and Iran's Petropars to develop the South Pars  field in the Persian Gulf, AFP reported, citing the Iranian Oil Ministry. The deal is worth $6  billion and needs to be finalized within six months, a ministry spokesman told AFP.  Total and other European energy giants began pulling out of Iran in  2008 as the international community ratcheted up sanctions on the country over its nuclear program. Total had previously been involved  in developing South Pars, which contains nearly 40 percent of  Iran's massive natural gas reserves.   As Europeans exited Iran, China National Petroleum  Corp. and other Chinese companies continued their development  plans thanks to a loophole that allowed firms investing $20  million or less in the country's oil and gas sector to keep doing  business there. But steadily escalating sanctions eventually made  it too onerous for the Chinese drillers to meet the obligations  of their contracts with Tehran.  Iran is seeking to attract roughly $200  billion in investment into its oil and gas industry. A  key component of that is a new model petroleum contract, which  allows foreign companies to participate in more phases of development  and production than the old "buy-back" contract.  European oil companies have been eager to re-enter Iran, but  continue to mull over the terms of the new contract and watch for  signs that major financial institutions will resume operations  there.  Major natural gas fields in Iran   Analyst say the outcome of Iran's elections next  spring will be critical to determining the investment outlook.  The outward-looking moderate President Hassan Rouhani, whose  administration brokered the nuclear deal, will face off against Iranian hardliners who are skeptical of international involvement in their country's energy sector.Total did not immediately return a request for a response.  A spokesperson for Royal Dutch Shell recently confirmed to  CNBC that the company is considering areas of cooperation with Iran's National Petrochemical Co. However, "It is much too early to discuss potential Shell  investment in any project," said Nureddin Wefati, Shell's head of  media relations for the Middle East and North Africa.  A spokesperson for Italian oil major Eni said the  company was also taking a wait-and-see approach.  "Basically, Iran has a great potential in terms of oil and gas  reserves. However, we are still trying to understand the  contractual frameworks that will be adopted for the oil and gas  industry in the country. In view of that, we will evaluate any  possible opportunity," he told CNBC in an email.  U.S.-headquartered oil companies like Exxon  Mobil and Chevron are  still prohibited from doing business in Iran or with Iranian  individuals due to U.S. sanctions on Tehran over its alleged  human rights abuses and support for American-designated terror  groups.  Iran, the third-largest OPEC producer, has recently increased oil  exports as it seeks to regain market share after years of  sanctions that crippled its economy.