Aker Solutions increases LNG capacities to satisfy demand 
30102017

1544
Natural GasAker Solutions is fortifying its liquefied natural gas capabilities to take advantage of a forecasted increase in global demand for this fuel as power companies turn to a low-carbon future.Aker has appointed four leading professionals with large experience from running more than 30 LNG projects worldwide. Their know-how links with the company's expertise in subsea, gas compression and floating facility design.
 
Knut Nyborg, Executive Vice President, a person that leads Aker Solutions' front-end delivery center, declared: "Strengthening our gas team with this top industry talent extends our reach in a sector where we see great potential."

Demand for gas is expected to overpass oil and coal over the next 20 years, with LNG consumption twice higher, as the world progressively moves to low-carbon energy. Nyborg further said: "We're now in a strong position to develop cost-effective integrated gas solutions from reservoir to market, providing our customers the solutions they need to develop these new and often complex gas projects."
 
The extension to Aker Solutions' LNG and gas processing team empowers the company's ability to integrate the various phases of an offshore gas development from initial viability studies to delivery stage, offering value and bringing productivity across an overall project.
 
Today Aker Solutions takes part in several LNG projects globally, including a liquefaction facility in the U.S. and a floating LNG facility in West Africa. The company is also a heading partner in subsea production, processing and transportation of gas. In 2015, the company supplied the world's first subsea gas compression system for the Asgard field in Norway.
 
The new team based in London makes part of the firm's front-end group, which offers early-phase design and consultancy services for energy projects.
 
Aker has appointed four leading professionals with large experience from running more than 30 LNG projects worldwide. Their know-how links with the company's expertise in subsea, gas compression and floating facility design. 
Knut Nyborg, Executive Vice President, a person that leads Aker Solutions' front-end delivery center, declared: "Strengthening our gas team with this top industry talent extends our reach in a sector where we see great potential."
Demand for gas is expected to overpass oil and coal over the next 20 years, with LNG consumption twice higher, as the world progressively moves to low-carbon energy. Nyborg further said: "We're now in a strong position to develop cost-effective integrated gas solutions from reservoir to market, providing our customers the solutions they need to develop these new and often complex gas projects." The extension to Aker Solutions' LNG and gas processing team empowers the company's ability to integrate the various phases of an offshore gas development from initial viability studies to delivery stage, offering value and bringing productivity across an overall project. Today Aker Solutions takes part in several LNG projects globally, including a liquefaction facility in the U.S. and a floating LNG facility in West Africa. The company is also a heading partner in subsea production, processing and transportation of gas. In 2015, the company supplied the world's first subsea gas compression system for the Asgard field in Norway. The new team based in London makes part of the firm's front-end group, which offers early-phase design and consultancy services for energy projects.
 