Al Bahar sets up Dubai solar plant for Caterpillar 
23052018

0850
SolarUAE-based Al Bahar, a major dealer of Cat machinery, heavy equipment and power systems, has successfully completed the installation of its first solar project at Dubai, UAE for Caterpillar Distribution Services Europe.The grid-tied solar PV plant at Caterpillar Dubai District Office, which has been designed by Al Bahar, is now set for commissioning, said a statement from the company.
 
Inspired by the initiative Shams Dubai - Dewa's first smart initiative to connect solar energy to buildings, a part of the Distributed Renewable Resources Generation programme, the project intends to enable the facility to reduce dependency on grid power, it stated.
 
With objectives like reduction of carbon footprint, energy conservation by utilisation of a much cleaner energy source, the project aims to set up a PV plant that can be used for regional microgrid training activities, said Al Bahar in its statement.
 
The new PV plant is expected to provide Caterpillar Distribution Services 237 MW energy yield annually, for the next 25 years. The project also supports Dubai Clean Energy Strategy 2050, which has set a target for the emirate to meet 75 per cent of its needs through solar energy within that period.
 
Belonging to a region that enjoys 365 days of sun and laying in a global sunbelt, scalable solar and microgrid solutions are always a profitable alternative to power needs.
 
Al Bahar said the project is the first solar ground installation in Jafza especially for a training centre in the region. In addition to ground installations, it includes panels on a 6-m high canopy that offers shade for generators.
 
The project also boasts four 25kw inverters and one 20kw inverter, offering a total of 120KW AC, it added.-TradeArabia News Service.
Source: tradearabia.com
The grid-tied solar PV plant at Caterpillar Dubai District Office, which has been designed by Al Bahar, is now set for commissioning, said a statement from the company. Inspired by the initiative Shams Dubai - Dewa's first smart initiative to connect solar energy to buildings, a part of the Distributed Renewable Resources Generation programme, the project intends to enable the facility to reduce dependency on grid power, it stated. With objectives like reduction of carbon footprint, energy conservation by utilisation of a much cleaner energy source, the project aims to set up a PV plant that can be used for regional microgrid training activities, said Al Bahar in its statement. The new PV plant is expected to provide Caterpillar Distribution Services 237 MW energy yield annually, for the next 25 years. The project also supports Dubai Clean Energy Strategy 2050, which has set a target for the emirate to meet 75 per cent of its needs through solar energy within that period. Belonging to a region that enjoys 365 days of sun and laying in a global sunbelt, scalable solar and microgrid solutions are always a profitable alternative to power needs. Al Bahar said the project is the first solar ground installation in Jafza especially for a training centre in the region. In addition to ground installations, it includes panels on a 6-m high canopy that offers shade for generators. The project also boasts four 25kw inverters and one 20kw inverter, offering a total of 120KW AC, it added.-TradeArabia News Service.Source: tradearabia.com