Albania completes first renewable energy support auction in Energy Community 
16112018

0907
RenewableAlbania has successfully completed the first-ever renewable energy support auction in the Energy Community, the Energy Community Secretariat said.Last week, Albania's energy ministry said it has selected a consortium led by India Power Corporation for the construction of a 100 MW solar park worth 70 million euro ($79.3 million) in Akerni area, near the southwestern port city of Vlora.
 
"We warmly welcome the first renewables support auction in Albania and hope that it will be followed in all Contracting Parties," director of Energy Community Secretariat Janez Kopac said in a press release on Wednesday.
 
"Renewable energy auctions provide a competitive selection processes for granting support, resulting in lower renewable energy prices. This is a clear gain for energy consumers," Kopac added.
 
The renewable energy auction in Albania was preceded earlier this year by Montenegro granting the tender for the construction on state-leased land and operation of a solar PV project with an installed generation capacity of 250MW without support, the statement added.  
 
The tie-up comprising India Power, Mining Resources FZE based in the United Arab Emirates and Hong Kong-based Midami Ltd offered a combination of technical and financial credibility, price and additional capacity, the Albania's energy ministry said in a press release last week.
Source: seenews.com
Last week, Albania's energy ministry said it has selected a consortium led by India Power Corporation for the construction of a 100 MW solar park worth 70 million euro ($79.3 million) in Akerni area, near the southwestern port city of Vlora. "We warmly welcome the first renewables support auction in Albania and hope that it will be followed in all Contracting Parties," director of Energy Community Secretariat Janez Kopac said in a press release on Wednesday. "Renewable energy auctions provide a competitive selection processes for granting support, resulting in lower renewable energy prices. This is a clear gain for energy consumers," Kopac added. The renewable energy auction in Albania was preceded earlier this year by Montenegro granting the tender for the construction on state-leased land and operation of a solar PV project with an installed generation capacity of 250MW without support, the statement added.   The tie-up comprising India Power, Mining Resources FZE based in the United Arab Emirates and Hong Kong-based Midami Ltd offered a combination of technical and financial credibility, price and additional capacity, the Albania's energy ministry said in a press release last week.Source: seenews.com