Falling oil prices don't endanger Iran's budget for now, but crude's plunge could weaken the country's position in ongoing nuclear talks.  Iran and other oil producers lobbied top OPEC  producer Saudi  Arabia to cut output at the latest meeting of the  organization in Vienna last week, but to no avail. One year  ago, Brent crude was in  the $120-a-barrel range. Since then it has fallen to a five-year  low, losing more than a third of its value and sitting below $72 a barrel on  Tuesday.  Read MoreCrumbling oil may make Putin more  dangerous  The Iranian government developed a budget based on oil at $100  barrel. Petroleum accounts for 80 percent of  Iran's exports, according to the CIA World Factbook.  Still, Iran's budget may be insulated from the pain, for now.  "There's no direct hit to the current budget from  the recent oil price slump," said Ramin Rabii of  Turquoise Partners, one of Tehran's main investment firms.  "But if oil prices remain low for too long,  it can become a problem."  Since 2004, 30 percent of Iran's oil revenue has gone into a  "National Development Fund" that was set up to fortify the country's  economy in case of a major drop in the price of oil. Another plus for Iran is that it only costs the National Iranian  Oil Company between $10 and $15 to produce a barrel of oil, so  even now, the energy business is still profitable.  While safeguards were erected to protect Iran's economy from  steep oil drops, crude's fall does appear to give an advantage  to the United States, Britain, France, China, Russia and Germany in their ongoing nuclear standoff with  the Islamic Republic.    "The Iranian government doesn't have a clear strategy, and the  lack of foreign investment and Iran's isolation from the global  financial system means that it may be too late for Iran to escape  its dependence on oil exports, unless a nuclear deal is reached  and sanctions eased," according to Rand Corp. Iran analyst  Alireza Nader.   Read More  Iran's Supreme Leader Ayatollah Khamenei has said that the  Islamic Republic will not let falling oil weaken its stance on  the nuclear front, calling on the country to create "an economy of  resistance."    Most analysts including Nader see that as wishful thinking and  believe that if oil prices keep falling so will Iran's  negotiating position in the nuclear talks.  Tehran's stock exchange has fallen 5 percent  since OPEC—led by Iranian rival Saudi Arabia—decided last week against cutting  production. Turquoise's Rabii attributed that decline less to the  price of oil than to Iran's inability to strike a nuclear  agreement with a group of countries comprising the five  permanent United Nations Security Council members  plus Germany.  While talks were extended for a second time, Iranians remain  nervous that new economic sanctions are coming, and that's an  even bigger worry than oil's decline. "Psychologically that has a  bigger impact right now," Rabii said.