  The only way for oil producers to cope with the low price of  crude is to hike rather than cut production, an industry analyst  told CNBC.  Natixis Lead Oil Market Analyst Abhishek Deshpande said that both  the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and  Western producers were working hard to maintain oil  levels—simply as a matter of self-preservation.   "They're left with no choice," Deshpande told CNBC on Monday.  Both OPEC and Western producers want to keep production high, but  their motivations are different, said Deshpande.   OPEC is trying to preserve its market share and offset losses  from low prices with an increase in sales, he told CNBC. However,  Western producers are ramping up production to service a growing  debt pile.   "They have taken large amounts of loans to drill rigs on a weekly  basis or monthly basis—how do they pay back this money?   The only way you can pay back this money is by keeping on  drilling," Deshpande said.  "If you stop drilling, basically the music stops."  Brent crude oil  gained on Monday, after hitting a six-month low of $48.25 per  barrel in early trade. The low point came in the wake of the  weekend's mixed Chinese trade data and a report on Friday on  increased rig count across the U.S.   Brent prices were up around 3.25 percent at $50.19 in afternoon trade in the U.S. The price of North America's oil  benchmark, West Texas Intermediate (WTI), settled up 2.48 percent at  $44.96 per barrel.   However, both Brent and WTI are down around 50 percent on level  seen from 2011 until the first half of 2014.   Deshpande added that U.S. producers had also probably tried to  hedge for falling oil back in May and June, when prices were  better supported.   "Basically what they've done is kick the tin down the road by,  probably, hedging," he said.  "But it's not a sustainable solution and sooner rather than later  you will see some downgrades, especially some companies coming  under pressure."   Miswin Mahesh, an oil analyst at Barclays in London, said there  was a risk of upcoming earnings from oil producers disappointing,  after optimistic guidance.   "At these prices, there's risk that the guidance would be  surprising to the downside," he told CNBC on Monday.     Still, Barclays maintains a relatively positive yearly outlook on  oil prices, forecasting an average price of $61 per barrel for  Brent crude in 2015. It forecasts an average of $61 per barrel in  the third quarter and up to $66 per barrel in the last three  months of the year.    "The market will be surprised by how strong demand is," Mahesh  said, adding that current demand data was underreported.   Deshpande was less optimistic, forecasting a bear market for the  rest of the year.  Furthermore, he said further pressure  could push Brent prices as low as $40 per barrel in the first  quarter of 2016. 