  Some analysts are taking a brighter view of some U.S. drillers as  consensus grows around the idea that supply and demand in oil  markets will balance out sooner than expected.  Crude prices have recovered about 85 percent to roughly $50 a  barrel since their winter lows, most recently on supply  disruptions amid militant attacks on oil infrastructure in Nigeria,  wildfires in Canada and economic crisis in Venezuela.   On Tuesday, the International Energy Agency said it sees oil supply and demand  balancing in the second half of 2016, ahead of its prior  forecast that they would do so in early 2017. Meanwhile, the IEA  now sees oil demand growing more than previously expected in  2016, up 1.3 million barrels per day to a total of 96.1 million  bpd for the year.  That followed a report from OPEC on Monday that said the group's  current-quarter production is running below the demand it  anticipates in the second half of the year, according to Reuters.  In a more-balanced market, daily developments exert a greater  effect on crude prices, leading to higher volatility, explained  Robert Christensen, senior equity analyst a broker-dealer Drexel  Hamilton. For now, he said he believes those moves are biased to  the upside. Oil prices have  slid for four straight days amid fear that Britons will vote to  leave the European Union next week. But Christensen said  investors are putting too much emphasis on that near-term event,  especially given the supply-demand fundamentals highlighted by  IEA.  Christensen on Tuesday advised picking up shares of some Permian  Basin drillers that he believes can raise production profitably.  The Permian is located beneath Texas and New Mexico.  To be sure, some market watchers believe another price collapse  will ensue if U.S. drillers desperate for revenue turn on the tap  too soon. But Christensen said many producers in North Dakota's more mature  Bakken oil fields won't tap new production until they assess how  increased drilling in Texas and New Mexico's Permian affects oil  prices.  Latecomers to the Bakken "remain challenged. I don't think it's  going to be a uniform redeployment," he told CNBC.  Christensen said he sees Pioneer Natural Resources as the best large-cap  momentum driller, citing its dominant status in the Permian's  Midland Basin, which has some of the lowest break-even drilling  costs in the country.  The Irving, Texas-based driller has said it could add five to 10  rigs if oil stays above $50 a barrel and supply-demand  fundamentals improve. That could help Pioneer increase oil  production by up to 30 percent this year, according to  Christensen.   The consensus price target on shares of Pioneer is about $187,  roughly 15 percent above their Tuesday close, according to  FactSet data. WPX Energy is  Drexel Hamilton's top small-cap momentum name. The company is  well-positioned in the Permian Delaware, aims to raise $485  million in equity markets and could generate a 20 percent bump in  output this year, Christensen said.  Christensen is also bullish on Anadarko Petroleum and QEP Resources, but said they likely need  prices to rebound to $55 or $60 a barrel if they want to  profitably add production.   On Monday, Morgan Stanley upgraded some exploration and  production stocks on the view that pent-up demand among investors  for a buying opportunity in the energy sector and an ultimate oil  price recovery will offset an anticipated pullback as gains  driven by supply disruptions fade.  "We continue to believe the longer-term recovery is the bigger  and higher conviction event in a lower conviction world, and we  would add risk, yet not go 'all-in' here," Morgan Stanley said.  The firm raised its price target on Concho Resources to $173. The Delaware  and Midlands basins player can deliver 25 to 30 percent growth  when the oil recovery crystallizes in 2018, and has a  "best-in-class hedge portfolio" that protects it against a  possible downturn in the interim.  Canadian driller Cenovus Energy was also upgraded to "overweight" by  Morgan Stanley. In a higher oil price world, Cenovus' cash pile  will allow it to drive growth more quickly than its Canadian  peers, the firm said. Morgan Stanley's price target of 26  Canadian dollars ($20) implies 38 percent upside for the  Toronto-traded shares of Cenovus.  Morgan Stanley reiterated its positive view on Pioneer, Devon Energy, Continental  Resources and Cimarex Energy.