  Oil rig counts in the U.S. rose for the first time since December  2014 last week, weighing on the commodity's price and serving as  a reminder of oversupply fears, which could impact year end price  targets.  U.S. crude  futures and Brent crude for August delivery both fell roughly 2.5 percent on Friday to trade around $55.60 and $60.40 respectively on Friday—despite a  number of more bullish price forecasts in recent months.    This was after data from Baker Hughes showed the U.S. oil rig  count rose by 12 to 640 in the last week, putting a stop to 29  consecutive weeks of decline. Since peaking at 1,609 rigs in  October last year, the count has slumped around 60 percent.  Chief oil analyst at Energy Aspects, Amrita Sen, said that last  week's number were "distorted" due to flooding and the closure of  the Houston ship channel, one of the busiest waterways in the  world, and pointed to the consistent falls seen this year.However, oversupply fears also hit oil prices on Wednesday, after  the U.S. Energy Information Administration reported that U.S.  crude-oil stockpiles rose last week for the first time in nine  weeks. And this followed data that showed a sharp ramp up in U.S.  production in April to levels not seen in decades. Last week, UBS became the latest firm to upgrade its outlook for  the price for Brent crude oil to $61.59 per barrel from $56.25 on  signs that non-Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries  (OPEC) investment was slowing.   This is a smidgen above the consensus among market watchers for  Brent at $60 per barrel the end of the year.   But a number of bullish forecasts from the likes of investment  boutique Oppenheimer & Co. and billionaire oil tycoon Boone  Pickens in recent months have boosted some expectations to $70 by  the end of 2015.    However, Sen said: "I think to see a break to the upside; you  need inventories to start falling and not just in the U.S.,  globally. That means production needs to start falling, or the  Chinese need to start to buying, which is happening but needs to  pick up speed."  She added that "Downside risks are plenty."  "In the macro space there is Greece, there is the Chinese stock  market, ultimately inventories are still very high, unless that  cleans up I think prices are going to be capped. I don't think  prices should break significantly to the downside, but you know  getting anywhere close to $70 is quite some time away."  In the short-term, worries surrounding the Greek referendum this  Sunday could hit the price of oil, Sen said, as the U.S. dollar  could strengthen, which is traditionally negative for oil prices.  "European demand is up about 400,000 barrels per day this year.  Greece or no Greece, I think that continues, but on the oil  price, through the dollar you can get some negative impact—but I hope that a lot of this is priced in already," she  added. 