Azerbaijan suspends pumping oil through Baku-Novorossiysk 
19032019

0918
Oil MarketAccording to Azerbaijan's Trend, the country has suspended oil pumping through Baku-Novorossiysk, said Ibrahim Ahmadov, Deputy Head of the Public Relations Department at SOCAR.According to Ahmadov, this is due to scheduled inspections and repair work on the pipeline. <<We carry out regular inspections on the Baku-Novorossiysk pipeline and, in case of identifying any flaws or risks, carry out the necessary repairs,>> he said.
 
As Ahmadov noted, in order to fulfill the company's export obligations, the oil that was supplied via Baku-Novorossiysk has been redirected to the Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan (BTC) pipeline. <<Due to us having an extensive system of pipelines, we can redirect some volumes of oil to other pipelines in order to fulfill our export obligations,>> Ahmadov said.
 
The Baku-Novorossiysk oil pipeline transports oil extracted by SOCAR independently, as well as from onshore fields developed within joint ventures. SOCAR has been the operator of the Baku-Novorossiysk pipeline since 2008. Its 1,147 km long, 231 km in its Azerbaijani section, and 916 km in its Russian section. The highest capacity of the pipeline stands at 105,000 barrels a day.
Source: neftegaz.ru
According to Ahmadov, this is due to scheduled inspections and repair work on the pipeline. <<We carry out regular inspections on the Baku-Novorossiysk pipeline and, in case of identifying any flaws or risks, carry out the necessary repairs,>> he said. As Ahmadov noted, in order to fulfill the company's export obligations, the oil that was supplied via Baku-Novorossiysk has been redirected to the Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan (BTC) pipeline. <<Due to us having an extensive system of pipelines, we can redirect some volumes of oil to other pipelines in order to fulfill our export obligations,>> Ahmadov said. The Baku-Novorossiysk oil pipeline transports oil extracted by SOCAR independently, as well as from onshore fields developed within joint ventures. SOCAR has been the operator of the Baku-Novorossiysk pipeline since 2008. Its 1,147 km long, 231 km in its Azerbaijani section, and 916 km in its Russian section. The highest capacity of the pipeline stands at 105,000 barrels a day.Source: neftegaz.ru