Belgium considers new offshore wind area to reach its 4-GW objective 
24042018

1549
WindBelgium promises to increase twofold its wind development area in the North Sea in compliance with the plan to expand its offshore wind capacity up to 4 GW soon.  
According to Philippe De Backer, secretary of state for fighting social fraud, privacy and the North Sea, another area of 221-sq-km will be made available after 2020, supplementing the country's existing 225-sq-km zone off the coast of Zeebrugge. The new area will be located at a distance ranging from 35 km to 40 km in the sea and will not impede the view from the coastline.
 
By adding new zone for installing wind turbines, the government is trying to replace nuclear power capacity with renewable one, pursuing the country's goal to increase green energy and eliminate nuclear power by 2025.
 
The government is also poised to offer new offshore wind capacity through public bids that will not be supported by state subsidies. Mr. De Backer mentioned as well that Belgium follows the same pattern that has successfully been implemented in the Netherlands and Germany. He also didn't hesitate to note that the major obstacle represents the speed at which a grid connection for all that electricity can be built.
 According to Philippe De Backer, secretary of state for fighting social fraud, privacy and the North Sea, another area of 221-sq-km will be made available after 2020, supplementing the country's existing 225-sq-km zone off the coast of Zeebrugge. The new area will be located at a distance ranging from 35 km to 40 km in the sea and will not impede the view from the coastline. By adding new zone for installing wind turbines, the government is trying to replace nuclear power capacity with renewable one, pursuing the country's goal to increase green energy and eliminate nuclear power by 2025. The government is also poised to offer new offshore wind capacity through public bids that will not be supported by state subsidies. Mr. De Backer mentioned as well that Belgium follows the same pattern that has successfully been implemented in the Netherlands and Germany. He also didn't hesitate to note that the major obstacle represents the speed at which a grid connection for all that electricity can be built.