  Call it a crude conundrum: global oil production is surging,  demand is falling and prices are dropping fast. Brent Crude fell under $100 a barrel this week and hit a 17-month low on Thursday, and West Texas Intermediate was trading close to $90 a  barrel. All of which has some traders asking when—or if—producers will cut output in order to buttress prices.While crude demand typically drops in the fourth quarter, traders  are increasingly concerned about longer-term global growth and  its overall effect on crude demand. Specifically, problems in the euro zone and signs that China is importing less crude are making  the market anxious.  On Wednesday, OPEC cut its 2014 oil demand growth  forecast by 50,000 barrels per day to 1.05 million barrels and  trimmed its 2015 forecast by 20,000 barrels per day to 1.19 million.  While some have been expecting a production decline that may in turn support  prices, there haven't been any signs of that yet. OPEC's overall  output is rising as Libyan production comes back on line. In the United States, the Energy Information Administration just boosted its  forecast for U.S. crude oil production in 2015 from 9.28 million to 9.53 million  barrels per day.Read MoreBP boss calls for a Scottish 'no' vote  "This means that by the end of 2015, the U.S. could be producing  nearly 10 million barrels per day of crude oil," said Andy  Lipow of Lipow Oil Associates. "At this rate, the USA could be the No. 1 crude oil producer in 2016, surpassing both Saudi  Arabia and Russia."  Interestingly, Saudi Arabia is one of the only major producers  scaling back. OPEC's monthly report showed that in August, the  country took 400,000 barrels of crude per day off the table. Experts say it's because the Saudis need Brent prices to stay  above $92 a barrel in order to break even—and analysts also think the real Saudi response would be larger.  In North America, U.S. shale oil costs about $70 to $77 a barrel to  produce, and oil sands crude about $89 to $96 a barrel, according to  a recent Reuters survey. But no production cuts have been made.  Anthony Grisanti, president of GRZ Energy, noted the psychological  significance of oil's recent drop. "The $100 level in Brent is a  psychological support, for WTI it's $92.60. Those levels are both  now resistance, which is a reversal," Grisanti said.  "I think we could see WTI go to $88," he said. "I say that  because there's big support between $85 and $88. But that could  happen because we're hitting the fourth quarter and historically it's  a time of low demand." Read MoreJim Cramer: Here's what will move oil  prices  When asked about concerns over supply cuts, Grisanti said he  doesn't think it's likely in the U.S. "If we get to $85, you  could see producers curb supply, but that would take a few months to implement and by that time you'll already see spring demand  come back online again."  Lipow said OPEC is usually the first to cut production, but it's  difficult for the cartel to produce less than it is because its  member states need the revenue.   "If supply cuts occur, it happens in OPEC—notably Saudi  Arabia and to a much lesser extent Kuwait," Lipow said. "The other members of OPEC talk  about higher prices being needed, but they refuse to cut their  own production because they need the money."  In the U.S., a different strategy could be implemented. Rather  than cutting supply, producers might opt to slow down on  investment. "Many producers are already spending far more money  than they receive in cash flow, and lower prices would be a huge  negative," said Lipow. "Producers would slow down investment and  lay people off."  The refineries, however, actually benefit from lower oil prices,  because they mean a lower cost of production. That's actually  good news as well for consumers, who have seen retail gas prices  fall by 25 cents in the last 11 weeks.Read MoreUS, EU ready sanctions to stop oil hunt in Russia  But the longer-term refining strategy could shift.   "The refineries would not be [immediately] affected [by dropping  oil prices] but refinery investments for expansion due to the  increase in oil production would slow down," said Lipow, who noted that a large amount of investing is ongoing in the industry, and some projects could be canceled. "Valero is investing over $500 million at its Houston and Corpus Christi  refineries," he said. "Others like Marathon Refining and Delek are also  investing, while Western Refining has an (ongoing) project."  —By CNBC's Jackie DeAngelis