  Energy stocks have been on a tear this year, and Wall Street's  top-rated analyst thinks they've got more room to run in 2017  — roughly twice as much room to be exact.  Big oil earnings are poised to double next year as crude prices  continue to march higher and oilfield services costs remain  depressed, said Doug Terreson, head of energy research at Evercore  ISI and Institutional Investor's top-rated analyst for  integrated oil.  That would be a welcome change for integrated oil companies,  which handle everything from drilling for crude to marketing  fuel. They have seen their earnings decline significantly from  last year as they grind through an oil price downturn now in its  third year.  Terreson's top picks are Royal Dutch Shell, BP,  Exxon  Mobil and Chevron.  But he also sees upside for smaller independent exploration and  production companies and oilfield services firms.  "We're unrepentantly bullish here. Investors portfolios in our  view should be overweight energy and this includes integrated  oil, E&P and oilfield service stocks," he told CNBC's  "Fast  Money: Halftime Report" on Wednesday.  "Our call this year has really been not to overthink it because  with the oil price rising and costs declining, performance would  probably be pretty good, and so far so good," he said.  Energy has been the best-performing  group for the year. The sector is up 21.7 percent  year to date, and independent drillers  in particular were heading higher on Wednesday  after OPEC agreed to its  first deal to cut production in eight years.  The accord is aimed at balancing oil markets, which have been  oversupplied for more than two years by as much as 2 million  barrels per day. The Organization of the  Petroleum Exporting Countries said it would aim to  reduce its members' output by 1.2 million barrels a day and was  close to securing cuts totaling 600,000 barrels a day from  non-OPEC members, including Russia.  "While we expected OPEC to cut production, today's outcome  exceeded our expectations," Terreson said. "So this is a positive  outcome for the oil markets, and we also think for the outlook  for energy stocks in 2017 too."Disclaimer