BP will invest $200 million in solar development firm Co. Lightsource 
18122017

1353
SolarOil producer British Petroleum (BP) will make an investment of $200 million in Europe's major solar development company, Lightsource, as stated by BP on Friday.BP will gain a 43 percent stake and two seats on the board of the solar firm, with this $200 million investment. The company will be renamed Lightsource BP.  The oil producer wants to combine Lightsource's solar expansion and management knowledge with its global level, partnerships and trading capacities.

Lighsource BP will continue to expand and boost Lightsource's 6-gigawatt pipeline and aims the increasing demand for high level solar projects, concentrating mainly in the U.S., India, Europe and the Middle East markets.
 
By funding solar energy projects, BP will enhance its Alternative Energy business, which comprises wind power and biofuels.

Bob Dudley, BP group chief executive, declared: "BP has been committed to advancing lower-carbon energy for over 20 years and we're excited to be coming back to solar, but in a new and very different way. While our history in the solar industry was centered on manufacturing panels, Lightsource BP will instead grow value through developing and managing major solar projects around the world."
 
BP will gain a 43 percent stake and two seats on the board of the solar firm, with this $200 million investment. The company will be renamed Lightsource BP.  The oil producer wants to combine Lightsource's solar expansion and management knowledge with its global level, partnerships and trading capacities.
Lighsource BP will continue to expand and boost Lightsource's 6-gigawatt pipeline and aims the increasing demand for high level solar projects, concentrating mainly in the U.S., India, Europe and the Middle East markets. By funding solar energy projects, BP will enhance its Alternative Energy business, which comprises wind power and biofuels.
Bob Dudley, BP group chief executive, declared: "BP has been committed to advancing lower-carbon energy for over 20 years and we're excited to be coming back to solar, but in a new and very different way. While our history in the solar industry was centered on manufacturing panels, Lightsource BP will instead grow value through developing and managing major solar projects around the world."
 