George Osborne is planning to slash corporation tax to less  than 15 per cent in an effort to woo business deterred from  investing in a post-Brexit Britain as part of his new five-point  plan to galvanize the economy.  While the chancellor did not backtrack on his warning that  leaving the EU could push the country into recession, he told the  Financial Times: "We must focus on the horizon and the journey  ahead and make the most of the hand we've been dealt."  In his first interview since Britain voted for Brexit, Mr Osborne  said he wanted a leading role in shaping Britain's new economic  destiny, laying out plans to build a "super competitive economy"  with low business taxes and a global focus.  Mr Osborne wants to set the lowest corporation tax rate of any  major economy, announcing a target of less than 15 per cent, down  from 20 per cent now. He said Britain should "get on with it" to  prove to investors that the country was still "open for  business".  Such a sharp cut in business taxes would take Britain close to  the 12.5 corporation tax rate in Ireland and would anger EU  finance ministers who fear a race to the bottom. The move could  also alienate voters, given recent controversies over tax deals  struck with multinationals such as Google.  The head of tax at the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and  Development warned, in an internal memo cited by Reuters, that  the fallout from Brexit "may push the UK to be even more  aggressive in its tax offer" but that further steps in that  direction "would really turn the U.K. into a tax haven type of  economy".  Beside the tax cut, the chancellor said his five-point plan  included focusing on a new push for investment from China;  ensuring support for bank lending; redoubling efforts to invest  in the Northern powerhouse; and maintaining the UK's fiscal  credibilty.  The chancellor accepted that Britain faced a "very challenging  time" and urged the Bank of England to use its powers to avoid "a  contraction of credit in the economy", reminiscent of the squeeze  during the height of the financial crisis in 2008. More from the Financial Times : Osborne back on his feet after Brexit voteCorbyn has 'bunker mentality' say rivalsLegal challenge over Brexit negotiations  The BoE will publish the results of its Financial Policy  Committee meeting on Tuesday. It has many options available to  maintain the flow of credit to companies and households even if  many are reluctant to borrow in current circumstances.  The FPC could withdraw its commitment to increase the buffers  that banks have to hold in good times and even set up a new  Funding for Lending Scheme in conjunction with the Treasury.  The chancellor said Britain would aggressively seek new bilateral  trade deals and that he would lead an extended visit to China  this year, in an attempt to keep inward investment flowing.  In spite of the expected shock to the public finances, he also  called for the next prime minister to continue investing in the  HS2 rail project from London to the north and trans-Pennine rail  improvements and approve a new third runway for the south-east.  He said he was "not backing anyone at the moment" in the  Conservative leadership contest, although his friends say he  would like to continue at the Treasury or move to the Foreign  Office if offered the chance.  Some of his allies have already thrown their weight behind  Theresa May, home secretary, ahead of the first ballot on  Tuesday, but Andrea Leadsom, the pro-Brexit former Treasury  minister, is also winning favor with some Tory MPs.  On the public finances Mr Osborne promised to "maintain the  consolidation that we put in place last year" and said a review  of the structural damage caused by Brexit would be conducted in  the autumn.  Last week the chancellor dropped his target of a 2020 budget  surplus, as the Treasury focus shifted away from austerity to  policies to stop the shock of Brexit turning into a severe  recession.  Mr Osborne said whoever became prime minister should seek maximum  access to the EU single market for Britain's goods, services and  financial services, but conceded that could be curtailed by the  fact that voters in last month's referendum also want  restrictions on EU migration.