Bulgaria's Kozloduy NPP reconnects Unit 6 to grid after planned maintenance 
25102019

0905
NuclearBulgaria's sole nuclear power plant (NPP) Kozloduy said on Thursday that it has reconnected its 1,000 MW Unit 6 to the grid following a planned annual maintenance.During the shutdown which started on September 22 testing of the reactor's equipment and systems was carried out as well as reloading with fresh nuclear fuel, the state-owned power plant said in a statement.
 
Some planned measures related to the extension of the lifespan of Unit 6 were also implemented during the maintenance period.
 
Earlier this month, Bulgaria's nuclear regulator granted a ten-year extension of the operating licence of Unit 6. In 2017, the regulator extended by ten years the operating licence of the plant's other unit, the 1,000 MW Unit 5.
 
The total investment in the extension of the lifespan of the two units amounts to 292 million levs ($166.1 million/149.3 million euro), with the funds  provided by the NPP operator, energy minister Temenuzhka Petkova said after the power plant was granted the licence for Unit 6.
 
NPP Kozloduy's Unit 5 is currently operating at full capacity, the power plant added.
Source: seenews.com
During the shutdown which started on September 22 testing of the reactor's equipment and systems was carried out as well as reloading with fresh nuclear fuel, the state-owned power plant said in a statement. Some planned measures related to the extension of the lifespan of Unit 6 were also implemented during the maintenance period. Earlier this month, Bulgaria's nuclear regulator granted a ten-year extension of the operating licence of Unit 6. In 2017, the regulator extended by ten years the operating licence of the plant's other unit, the 1,000 MW Unit 5. The total investment in the extension of the lifespan of the two units amounts to 292 million levs ($166.1 million/149.3 million euro), with the funds  provided by the NPP operator, energy minister Temenuzhka Petkova said after the power plant was granted the licence for Unit 6. NPP Kozloduy's Unit 5 is currently operating at full capacity, the power plant added.Source: seenews.com