CEZ holds out for a better price in the sale of Bulgarian assets 
28092017

0955
Energy EfficiencyCzech utility CEZ plans to sell its Bulgarian assets, for which 5 bidders were shortlisted. The company should settle on a transaction by the end of the year, or in case it cannot obtain the right price, it might scrap it, as told by a board member to Reuters. The names of the bidders were not disclosed, but it is said that the firms had experience in the Balkans, as announced by Tomas Pleskac.He added that CEZ could potentially sell all the assets separately or as a package, counting coal-fired power plant, renewable energy facilities, and an electricity distributor. Moreover, he stated that 3 bidders wanted the whole package of the company's assets, one bidder envisaged the 1,265 MW coal-fired plant Varna, while another one requested all the assets but the offline Varna plant, which needs upgrades to meet European Union regulations.
 
After long-running disputes with Bulgarian authorities in terms of price, CEZ launched in 2016 arbitration against the government, searching for hundreds of million euros for failure to shelter its investments. 
 
Consequently, CEZ decided to exit Bulgaria, focusing on Czech and Central European markets and to push into renewables, particularly in France and Germany, where more opportunities exist. 
 
The media reported that CEZ was not satisfied with bids for its Bulgarian assets and Czech energy group Energo-Pro decided to make a more beneficial offer of 300 million euros ($353 mln). Still, discussions regarding prices and conditions will continue.
 
Pleskas declared that after the Bulgaria sales, CEZ did not have any intention to sell Romanian or Turkish assets, waiting nevertheless for better offers.
He added that CEZ could potentially sell all the assets separately or as a package, counting coal-fired power plant, renewable energy facilities, and an electricity distributor. Moreover, he stated that 3 bidders wanted the whole package of the company's assets, one bidder envisaged the 1,265 MW coal-fired plant Varna, while another one requested all the assets but the offline Varna plant, which needs upgrades to meet European Union regulations. After long-running disputes with Bulgarian authorities in terms of price, CEZ launched in 2016 arbitration against the government, searching for hundreds of million euros for failure to shelter its investments.  Consequently, CEZ decided to exit Bulgaria, focusing on Czech and Central European markets and to push into renewables, particularly in France and Germany, where more opportunities exist.  The media reported that CEZ was not satisfied with bids for its Bulgarian assets and Czech energy group Energo-Pro decided to make a more beneficial offer of 300 million euros ($353 mln). Still, discussions regarding prices and conditions will continue. Pleskas declared that after the Bulgaria sales, CEZ did not have any intention to sell Romanian or Turkish assets, waiting nevertheless for better offers.