  Get used to paying less at the gas pump. Oil prices are expected to stay at their  currently low levels, and possibly even drop further, due to a  "perfect storm" of risk factors, analysts say.Oil prices continued to flirt with yearlong lows Monday.  November Brent crude futures were down about 1.7 percent to trade near $88.50. WTI crude  oil also dropped, albeit by a less dramatic amount, to near $85.49. Read MoreDon't panic over oil: T. Boone  Pickens  Those decreases may only be the beginning though, according to  analysts. Dan Stober, a managing director and partner at  HighTower Bellevue, said the market could see oil prices come as low  as the mid-70s in the next few months. Richard Hastings of  Global Hunter Securities also  said prices could fall lower from their current levels, but that  they will likely stabilize around their current range.  "It's very possible a few trading days where some trade takes  place at below $80 a barrel," said Hastings, a macro strategist.  It has taken a multitude of factors, all emerging around the same  time, to create the volatility investors currently witness in the  market, Hastings said. And it's precisely because of the  complexity of all those risk factors that oil is expected to  remain at lower prices for months.  "You're looking at a lot of supply in a world that has a flat  demand story," he said.  Much of flat demand stems from worries of a recession in Europe and a slowdown in China. The euro zone is combating longstanding economic problems that have left it on the brink  of another economic crisis. Meanwhile, growth in China has begun to  lag, which is expected to reduce its thirst for crude.  "In a slowdown, it's just natural that consumers would consume  less," said Lars Knudsen, also a managing director and partner  with HighTower Bellevue. "Even with lower oil prices, if  unemployment is at 20 percent in Spain, those people are going to drive less and going to  spend less. The same thing goes with China." Read More Why the oil price decline  is failing to boost Europe  Meanwhile, low demand for oil is being met by exorbitant  supply.  U.S. production of crude remains at all-time highs, which  previously was of little consequence but now compounds the  problem seen in the crude market. Simultaneously, political  conditions have improved in Libya,  allowing for oil production to ramp up in earnest for the first  time since the start of the country's civil. Russia also plays the role of a  spoiler when it comes to global crude supplies. Given the  economic turmoil Russia has experienced due to its involvement in  Ukraine, some analysts believe Moscow may cash in on its stores  of oil to help keep the country's economy afloat.  Normally, high oil supplies would push OPEC and other oil producing countries to  cut production. Yet, recent reports suggest OPEC nations,  particularly Saudi Arabia, are  willing to keep prices low if that increases demand.  "They have expectations of income," Knudsen said. "So they have  increased production to keep their heads above water."  Even with the confluence of factors pushing prices down, however,  it won't be that way for much longer than a few months—in  large part because of the approach of colder weather.   "Winter fuel demand will soon kick in," Hastings said. "And it  does greatly improve the demand for fuels, reduce fuel stockpiles  and in turn stabilize oil prices."  It's also unlikely all of OPEC will go the same route that some see Saudi Arabia taking—eventually some of these nations will need to cut  production so that prices can return to profitable levels.  Also, consumer sentiment should rise as gasoline prices fall,  trigger improvements in the household sector and consumer  spending. Read MoreWill the plunge in gas prices boost  holiday retail?  "When you're paying less at the pump it good for the consumer,"  Stober said.And there's always ISIS.  Tensions in the Middle East due  to the expanding terrorist group could easily cause the same jolt  to oil prices that the market saw earlier this year, particularly  if ISIS were to establish itself in Baghdad and Basra—vital  cities for Iraq's oil industry,  Hastings said.CORRECTION: An earlier version of this story misspelled Mr. Stober's name.