  Oil markets will balance out in the coming months as cuts to  capital investment by the big oil companies lead to a drop in  supply, according to the chief executive of energy giant  Chevron.  Speaking to CNBC, John Watson, chairman and CEO of Chevron,  explained that oil prices are ultimately the results of supply  and demand.   A huge, global oversupply of oil caused prices to collapse in  mid-2014 from above $100 a barrel. On Tuesday, Brent crude  futures traded around $43 a barrel.  As a result of low oil prices, investment has been withdrawn from  the sector, according to Watson.  "We are in a resource business that declines over time without  capital. And so new projects have been slowed down but also a lot  of short-cycle spending," he told CNBC's Matt Taylor.  "The shale oil developments in the U.S., what we call infill  drilling in the business, that has slowed down measurably. And  we're starting to see a supply response that will bring markets  into better balance."  Watson described this weekend's meeting in Doha between several  OPEC and non-OPEC oil producing nations, where the prospect of an  output freeze is to be discussed, as a "wildcard" that may affect  oil prices in the short term.  "What will OPEC do and what will the producing nations do and  will there be some collaboration by those nations to limit  increases in supply or reduce supply and that can affect prices,"  he said. And "But ultimately, it's going to come down to supply  and demand and I think markets will come into better  balance."  Watson also discussed the prospects for liquified natural gas  (LNG). Chevron has an LNG plant in Australia to develop the  Gorgon gas field."The LNG business has been around for a long time and it's  entering a new phase. It's maturing and we're in a spot right now  where many projects are coming online," he said. "The world's  going to need energy going forward. LNG production is expected to  double over the next decade."  Prices for natural gas have steadily fallen  in recent years. Year to date, the commodity's price has dropped  20 percent. Also, extracting LNG is an expensive process.  "LNG developments are multibillion dollar type of developments  and I don't think that will change but we can make them more  efficient than they have been," Watson said.   "We can manage those costs very well but there're still going to  be large capital commitments that are going to be required  because it takes money to liquefy natural gas, transport it [and]  re-gasify it in those developing markets." Follow CNBC International on Twitter and Facebook. 