Chinese state grid companies will bid for Finland's Elenia 
25092017

1627
Electricity MarketTwo state-owned Chinese electricity grid companies are interested in acquiring Finland's second-biggest power distributor, Elenia Oy, in a transaction that might be valued at 3 billion euros, as stated by sources on Friday.Two state-owned Chinese electricity grid companies are interested in acquiring Finland's second-biggest power distributor, Elenia Oy, in a transaction that might be valued at 3 billion euros, as stated by sources on Friday.
 
According to the sources, China Southern Power Grid and State Grid Corporation of China, the world's biggest utility, were both submitting offers for the Finnish company, which Sweden's Vattenfall sold for around 1.5 billion euros in 2012.
 
Elenia Oy, run by 3i Infrastructure and Goldman Sachs Infrastructure Partners, lined up Goldman Sachs and Citi in 2016, with the purpose of selling the business, which might be one of biggest infrastructure transactions in Europe this year.
 
A series of European infrastructure acquisitions was made by rich state-owned companies in China ranging from Piraeus Port in Athens to Portuguese and Greek power grid operators or to stakes in Britain's Thames Water.
 
A conglomerate backed by German insurer Allianz and Australian investment bank Macquarie,as well as the fund manager Dalmore Capital and Abu Dhabi Investment Authority (ADIA), are getting ready to submit offers in an auction likely to occur in mid-October, as announced by 2 banking sources.
 
Elenia Oy refused to comment, while China Southern Power Grid, Macquarie, State Grid Corporation of China, Allianz , Dalmore and ADIA were not available to make any comments.
 
The decision to sell the business was taken after several disposals of regulated grid businesses by European energy companies which are looking to reduce debt and increase funds for the sake of investing in new infrastructure projects. 
 
Pension funds have gained an attractive asset among pension funds and institutional investors class as power and gas networks, because governments regulate their return, allowing investors to have a predictable source of income at times when economy is struggling. 
In 2016, the revenues of the Finish electricity distributor amounted to 315.3 million euros and earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation accounted for 168.4 million euros. The company services approximately 420,000 customers in 100 municipalities.
 
Two state-owned Chinese electricity grid companies are interested in acquiring Finland's second-biggest power distributor, Elenia Oy, in a transaction that might be valued at 3 billion euros, as stated by sources on Friday. According to the sources, China Southern Power Grid and State Grid Corporation of China, the world's biggest utility, were both submitting offers for the Finnish company, which Sweden's Vattenfall sold for around 1.5 billion euros in 2012. Elenia Oy, run by 3i Infrastructure and Goldman Sachs Infrastructure Partners, lined up Goldman Sachs and Citi in 2016, with the purpose of selling the business, which might be one of biggest infrastructure transactions in Europe this year. A series of European infrastructure acquisitions was made by rich state-owned companies in China ranging from Piraeus Port in Athens to Portuguese and Greek power grid operators or to stakes in Britain's Thames Water. A conglomerate backed by German insurer Allianz and Australian investment bank Macquarie,as well as the fund manager Dalmore Capital and Abu Dhabi Investment Authority (ADIA), are getting ready to submit offers in an auction likely to occur in mid-October, as announced by 2 banking sources. Elenia Oy refused to comment, while China Southern Power Grid, Macquarie, State Grid Corporation of China, Allianz , Dalmore and ADIA were not available to make any comments. The decision to sell the business was taken after several disposals of regulated grid businesses by European energy companies which are looking to reduce debt and increase funds for the sake of investing in new infrastructure projects.  Pension funds have gained an attractive asset among pension funds and institutional investors class as power and gas networks, because governments regulate their return, allowing investors to have a predictable source of income at times when economy is struggling. 
In 2016, the revenues of the Finish electricity distributor amounted to 315.3 million euros and earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation accounted for 168.4 million euros. The company services approximately 420,000 customers in 100 municipalities.
 