China and Russia sign general contract for two Xudabao units 
07062019

0909
NuclearThe general contract for Russian-designed VVER-1200 reactors for units 3 & 4 of the Xudabao nuclear power plant in China's Liaoning province was signed yesterday in Moscow in the presence of the countries' heads of state.The contract was signed by representatives of Rosatom's engineering subsidiary ASE and China National Nuclear Corporation (CNNC).
 
In June last year, Russia and China signed four agreements, including for the construction of two VVER-1200 reactors as units 7 and 8 of the Tianwan plant. In addition, two VVER-1200 units are to be constructed at the new Xudabao site.
 
Alexey Likhachov, general director of the Russian state nuclear corporation, said: "Today, we have moved a Russian-designed NPP construction project on a new site to the practical stage of its implementation. Taking into account the previously signed contract for the Tianwan NPP, together with our Shinese partners we will build four of the latest Generation 3+ power units by 2028."
 
In March the general contract for the construction of two Russian-supplied reactors at the Tianwan nuclear power plant in Jiangsu province was signed. In addition, a technical design contract was signed for a second pair of reactors for Xudabao.
Source: world-nuclear-news.org
The contract was signed by representatives of Rosatom's engineering subsidiary ASE and China National Nuclear Corporation (CNNC). In June last year, Russia and China signed four agreements, including for the construction of two VVER-1200 reactors as units 7 and 8 of the Tianwan plant. In addition, two VVER-1200 units are to be constructed at the new Xudabao site. Alexey Likhachov, general director of the Russian state nuclear corporation, said: "Today, we have moved a Russian-designed NPP construction project on a new site to the practical stage of its implementation. Taking into account the previously signed contract for the Tianwan NPP, together with our Shinese partners we will build four of the latest Generation 3+ power units by 2028." In March the general contract for the construction of two Russian-supplied reactors at the Tianwan nuclear power plant in Jiangsu province was signed. In addition, a technical design contract was signed for a second pair of reactors for Xudabao.Source: world-nuclear-news.org