  The U.S. dollar was weaker against most currencies on Monday after the impact of oil producers' failure  to agree on a plan to curb global supply faded, boosting risk  appetite and leaving traders to mull a dovish Federal Reserve.Commodity-linked currencies such as the Australian, New Zealand  and Canadian dollars and the Russian ruble turned positive against  the U.S. dollar after falling earlier on a collapsed plan to cap oil  production at current levels on Sunday at a producers' meeting in Doha,  Qatar.The  hit a nearly 10-month high against the  greenback of $0.7759 after slipping to a nearly one-week low of $0.7594.  Analysts said a strike by Kuwaiti oil and gas workers that was supportive  of oil prices helped the currency, while greater risk appetite also  boosted the Aussie."Risk has proven fairly resilient to this negative news in oil,"  said Vassili Serebriakov, currency strategist at BNP Paribas in New  York. "It kind of feels like some of the global growth concerns may be  fading a bit."  Analysts said that, while the dollar edged higher against the  safe-haven yen given the greater risk appetite, it was weaker  against other rivals given traders' view that the Fed would  remain dovish in its path of interest rate increases this year.  "The tide right now is flowing towards dollar weakness," said  Douglas Borthwick, managing director at Chapdelaine Foreign  Exchange in New York. "The market is now convinced that the Fed  is more dovish than they had certainly expected at the start of  the year."  New York Fed President William Dudley reinforced the Fed's dovish  tone on Monday in a speech, stating that U.S. economic conditions  are "mostly favorable" yet the Fed remains cautious in raising  interest rates because threats loom.  In contrast, analysts said the European Central Bank may have run  out of ammunition to weaken the euro. The ECB will meet in  Frankfurt on Thursday. Analysts said the view that the ECB would  have trouble weakening the euro further, combined with  expectations for a dovish Fed, helped the euro gain against the  dollar.  The euro was last up 0.27 percent against the dollar at $1.1312  after hitting a session high of $1.1332.  The dollar index, which measures the greenback against a basket  of six major currencies, was down 0.22 percent at 94.486 . The  dollar was down 0.37 percent against the Swiss franc at 0.9641 franc.