  The oil price  slump is hitting home with layoffs and spending cuts but there  may be one positive development amid the rash of bad news:  companies are tightening their belts more swiftly. "The silver lining is the velocity--how fast all of these  companies have moved to cut cost and build efficiencies.  It's measured in weeks and months while in previous  cycles it would take much longer," said Thomas  McNulty, a director at consultancy Navigant Capital Advisors,  .  This should enable companies with healthy balance sheets to stay  in the green, he told CNBC's The Rundown.  Oilfield services giant Schlumberger was the latest casualty from  the oil crash, posting its first quarterly loss in 12 years,  prompting the company to cut another 10,000 jobs and initiate  share buybacks, the company said on Thursday.  Oil prices have slumped 70 percent  since they started their extended decline in  the summer of 2014 with both U.S. WTI light sweet crude and  European Brent moving just below $30 a barrel in Asian hours on  Friday after hitting 12-year lows recently.  The persistently low price is due to a supply surplus with the  boom in shale oil contributing to the glut exacerbated by the  refusal of producing group OPEC to cut its  30-million-barrel-a-day production ceiling. Saudi Arabia,  the most influential member of OPEC is sticking to its  strategy of low-cost production to squeeze out higher-cost  producers elsewhere.  The strategy however is taking longer than Saudi expected,  contributing to its record high deficit in 2015 and spurring the  country to introduce austerity measures such as cutting energy   subsidies.  "Some of the players in the Middle East may have the ability to  produce at lower cost but they are also  paying for everybody's education, they are paying for  infrastructure, they are basically national companies  and that allows a lot of the free market competitors in  North American to find a way to make money at lower prices for  longer and to compete. They are built to compete head to head  every day and it's very different with the national oil  companies," said Navigant's  McNulty.  The rout is prompting a flurry of price downgrade with  ratings agency Moody's the latest to cut its 2016 price estimates  for crude-oil prices, to an average of $33 a barrel this year for  both WTI and Brent, $7 lower than its forecast for WTI  and $10 lower than its previous forecast for Brent.  "Today's large global inventories will still take time to unwind  and will continue to drag on prices even as demand picks up,"  said Terry Marshall, a Moody's Senior Vice President  The U.S. Energy Information Administration reported Thursday that  nationwide crude stocks rose by 4 million barrels, more than the  forecast 2.8 million barrels.  In a confused market, there are contrasting price forecasts.  Michael LaMotte, an oilfield services analyst and senior managing  director at Guggenheim Securities expects supply to tighten,  driving prices to $100 a barrel by 2018.  "What we have right now is an overproduction problem, not an excess  supply or an excess capacity problem," he said.  With $30 a barrel oil prompting a supply response in terms of  lower capital expenditure, LaMotte expects U.S. onshore  production to decline by 1.2 million barrels a day in the next 12  months, prompting the market to drawn down on inventories from  the second quarter onward to meet demand.  Another $500-600 billion will be needed to ramp up  production to increase by 1 million barrels a day from 2018 in  the U.S—far below the $50-60 billion that the sector  is generating this year, he said.  "It's going to take a lot higher oil prices and a lot of capital markets activity to generate the amount of cash that will be required to deliver the production that the world needs just a few years from now."  Follow CNBC International on Twitter and Facebook.