Construction Starts on Gazprom's Kharasaveyskoye Gas Field 
22032019

0904
Natural GasRussian President Vladimir Putin has overseen the official start of the full-scale development of Gazprom's Kharasaveyskoye gas field on the Yamal Peninsula.The field is located north of the Bovanenkovskoye field and is located partly on land and partly in the waters of the Kara Sea. It has an estimated two trillion cubic meters of gas reserves, and production is scheduled for 2023, with an output of 32 billion cubic meters of gas per year.
 
About 20 percent of the reserves are offshore and will be accessed from horizontal wells from the shore. The project envisages the construction of an integrated gas treatment unit, a booster compressor station and associated transport and energy infrastructure. In order to transport the gas produced at the field, a 106-kilometer gas pipeline connecting the Kharasaveyskoye and Bovanenkovskoye fields will be built.
 
Putin said the project is another important step in the integrated development of the Yamal Peninsula - in the development of a modern, powerful center for gas production and processing.
Source: maritime-executive.com
The field is located north of the Bovanenkovskoye field and is located partly on land and partly in the waters of the Kara Sea. It has an estimated two trillion cubic meters of gas reserves, and production is scheduled for 2023, with an output of 32 billion cubic meters of gas per year. About 20 percent of the reserves are offshore and will be accessed from horizontal wells from the shore. The project envisages the construction of an integrated gas treatment unit, a booster compressor station and associated transport and energy infrastructure. In order to transport the gas produced at the field, a 106-kilometer gas pipeline connecting the Kharasaveyskoye and Bovanenkovskoye fields will be built. Putin said the project is another important step in the integrated development of the Yamal Peninsula - in the development of a modern, powerful center for gas production and processing.Source: maritime-executive.com