Construction of Slovak-Polish gas pipeline link launched 
19092018

0850
Natural GasThe construction of a gas pipeline link between Slovakia and Poland was ceremonially launched at the gas transport hub in Velke Kapusany (Kosice Region) on Tuesday, September 18."We'll have another reserve resource of gas supplies if, God forbid, gas transit via Ukraine is halted," said Pellegrini, as cited by the TASR newswire. "This link to Poland will allow us to cover for Slovakia's annual gas consumption.
 
The Slovak-Polish gas interconnection will be built by Slovakia's Eustream and Poland's Gaz-System. It is scheduled to be put into operation in 2021. It will be 160-kilometres long, of which 103 kilometres will be in Slovakia. The overall cost for Slovakia should be EUR142 million, while the project has received a grant from the EU amounting to EUR55 million and a EUR70 million loan from the European Investment Bank.
 
The Velke Kapusany-Strachocina link will in effect also connect Slovakia to the Baltic LNG terminal Swinoujscie, which has direct access to alternative resources of natural gas from many other parts of the world.
Source: spectator.sme.sk
"We'll have another reserve resource of gas supplies if, God forbid, gas transit via Ukraine is halted," said Pellegrini, as cited by the TASR newswire. "This link to Poland will allow us to cover for Slovakia's annual gas consumption. The Slovak-Polish gas interconnection will be built by Slovakia's Eustream and Poland's Gaz-System. It is scheduled to be put into operation in 2021. It will be 160-kilometres long, of which 103 kilometres will be in Slovakia. The overall cost for Slovakia should be EUR142 million, while the project has received a grant from the EU amounting to EUR55 million and a EUR70 million loan from the European Investment Bank. The Velke Kapusany-Strachocina link will in effect also connect Slovakia to the Baltic LNG terminal Swinoujscie, which has direct access to alternative resources of natural gas from many other parts of the world.Source: spectator.sme.sk