  Oil industry leaders have dismissed talk of the price of crude  hitting the $20 lows predicted by analysts, who warned that  believing that "oil prices will be with us forever may not be the  right way of thinking."  Goldman Sachs stirred energy investors last month when its head  of commodity research warned of rising risks of oil prices  falling as low as $20 per barrel, in a message that was  reiterated on Tuesday. "The risk of $20 is driven by what we call a breach in storage  capacity, meaning that you have supply above demand, you fill  every storage tank on planet earth and then you have nowhere to  put it," Jeff Currie, head of commodity research at Goldman told  CNBC from the annual Oil & Money conference in London."(Then) supply has to come down in line with demand. The  only way you get that correction is prices crash down to cash  costs, which for a U.S. producer, is somewhere around  $20 a  barrel."    However, Fatih Birol, the executive director of the International  Energy Agency (IEA), told CNBC on Tuesday that low prices would  prompt U.S. producers to cut output, creating upward price  pressure.   "When we look at the next few quarters, we expect U.S. oil  production to decline because of low oil prices and in Iraq,  production growth will be much slower than in the past. And the  demand is creeping up," Birol told CNBC on Tuesday from the Oil  & Money conference.   "So therefore, to think that oil prices will be with us forever  may not be the right way of thinking."The U.S.-led revolution in the extraction of shale gas via  hydraulic fracturing or "fracking" has pushed more oil into the  market. At the same time, the OPEC group of oil-producing  countries have stood firm in the face of international pressure  to cut prices. Meanwhile, Iraq has increased production, while  demand growth for energy has slowed, largely due to the  deacceleration in the Chinese economy.   This has helped catalyze an historic collapse in the price of  crude oil, with both Brent and WTI trading below $50 per barrel,  down from around $110 per barrel until June 2014.   Whether or not U.S. shale players will cut production in response  to ongoing low prices is a moot point however. They could instead  respond by increasing production in order to satisfy creditors  eager for results.  Plus, against some odds, shale producers  have managed to lower productions costs, although these remain  high in comparison to conventional oil production.   Despite its warning, Goldman Sachs said there was a less than 50  percent chance of oil falling to $20 per barrel. Instead, its  base case scenario for 2016 was $45 per barrel—a level that  Birol said was still too low for U.S. shale producers to maintain  current production.   "It is proven it is a very resilient type of production, but this  level of prices, $45, $50 is not good enough to induce  reinvestments and for production to continue to grow. Therefore,  we expect as of next year, production growth will decline in the  United States," Birol told CNBC.   The secretary general of OPEC, Abadall El-Badri, also forecast  that oil production from countries outside his group would fall  next year.   "All I can tell you is that we see improvement," he told CNBC  from the Oil & Money conference in on Tuesday.   "We see that non-OPEC supply is declining and in 2016, we see  there is an increase in demand … so in a nutshell, there is  a balance in the market in 2016. How much this will reflect on  the price I really cannot tell," he later added.  El-Badri added that he was open to discussing production concerns  with the U.S., or any other non-OPEC country.   "In general, OPEC, as far as I can say as secretary general, we  have no problem with cooperating with anybody. Even with the  United States producers. If they want to talk to us, we are  willing talk to them, because now the situation is really  affecting almost everybody. United States, OPEC, non-OPEC,  everybody," he said.   Standard & Poor's (S&P) appeared more bullish on oil  prices than Goldman, forecasting on Tuesday that Brent oil would  average $55 per barrel in 2016, up from an average of $50 for the  remainder of this year.   Nonetheless, the weak price environment saw the ratings agency  take ratings action on 14 oil and gas exploration and production  companies on Tuesday.   S&P cut the ratings on EnQuest and Tullow Oil to "B" and "B+"  respectively and placed BP, Eni, Nostrum, Repsol, Statoil and the  State Oil Company of Azerbaijan Republic on "CreditWatch  Negative."   "Actual and forecast financial results in 2015 are typically weak  or very weak," said S&P on Tuesday.  "Correspondingly, credit metrics are likely to be at or below our  guidelines for ratings and we see very substantial negative DCF  (discounted cash flow) for European oil and gas majors in  particular." —By CNBC's Katy Barnato. Follow her on Twitter @KatyBarnato. 