  The price of oil could be set for a surprise turn on Friday with  two different oil ministers from the Organization of the  Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) suggesting the cartel could  raise its production target.  The organization currently accounts for around 40 percent of  global crude production and has a goal of producing 30 million  barrels a day. Analysts are widely expecting no change to this target at  tomorrow's OPEC meeting in Vienna but some ministers haven't  ruled out an alternative scenario.  "I don't think it will make a disaster if we increase (by) 1  million (barrels per day)," Kuwaiti Oil Minister Ali al-Omair  told CNBC Thursday on the sidelines of the meeting in  Austria.Read MoreHow OPEC might surprise you  Speaking on a personal level, he said that world economic growth  was improving and a glut in oil markets was being squeezed. He  added that a hike to a production level of 31 million barrels per  day would be "absorbed by economic growth." The dramatic fall in  the price of the commodity has been due to weak demand, a  strong dollar and booming U.S. oil production, according to the  International Energy Agency (IEA). However, OPEC's reluctance to  cut output last November has also been seen as a key reason  behind the fall with a steady oil supply weighing on the  price.  Prices have rallied since hitting lows of around $45 a barrel  earlier this year and the decision to hold production levels at  Friday's meeting had been seen as a foregone conclusion with some  expecting a very quick decision.  Iraqi Oil Minister Adel Abdel Mahdi, spoke of the recent rally to  around $65 a barrel as "something extraordinary" saying that it  was hard for OPEC to judge the correct balances between supply  and demand. He highlighted his bullishness on Iraqi production,  stating that the country could easily produce more of the  commodity.  "What we are producing now is still under the level we used to  produce in the late (1970s) because of the wars in the region,"  he told CNBC on the sidelines of the meeting.  "Iraq will always respect the unity of OPEC but also will respect  its rights. It will defend its rights. Iraq has the third  reserves in oil in the world so I think its portion, its quarter  within OPEC or with others, will be higher than it is  today."Read More  OPEC and oil prices: Sentiment is king  The security situation in Iraq has also improved, according to  Abdel Mahdi, who said that major oil fields were well secured. He  even suggested that the organization could add to its current  membership of 12 nations and grow its share of global  production.  Both delegates in Vienna stated that the price of around $75 to  $80 a barrel would be a fair price for the commodity with many  analysts predicting that oil could reach this level by the end of  this year.  "I think this is a just price," Abdel Mahdi told CNBC. Ali  al-Omair added that this range for oil would be "the best number"  for the country's finances.