  The  may have closed in the red on  Wednesday, but Jim Cramer wasn't sweating it.   It was clear to him that Washington is about to become very  business friendly when President-elect Donald  Trump announced a slew of pro-business Cabinet  selections on Wednesday.  "The result is that the market is anointing a whole new group of  stocks while slaughtering others," the "Mad Money" host said.  Trump's pro-growth agenda will do great things for companies that  need a strong economy to do well, but it doesn't mean much for  companies that already have growth, like technology stocks.  "I think there will be bargains in the groups getting crushed  because they are selling off too hard, as is almost always the  case in this market, which exaggerates every single move in  either direction," Cramer said.  Thus, the S&P 500 and Nasdaq had a  down day because the industries that directly benefit from  Trump's growth agenda don't make up much of either average.  To Cramer, the nine winners out of the 30 stocks in the Dow Jones  industrial average spoke volumes about Trump's Cabinet selections.  By simply watching the interviews of Wilbur Ross and Steve  Mnuchin on CNBC's "Squawk Box" on Wednesday morning, Cramer could  easily see that seven of the nine stocks that gained would  clearly benefit from the new administration.  Those stocks were Goldman Sachs, DuPont, Chevron, Exxon Mobil,  Caterpillar, JPMorgan, UnitedHealth, American Express and  Pfizer.  "Keep this list handy. It might grow over time, but these names  are at the core of the new regime as represented by Trump and now  by Steve Mnuchin and Wilbur Ross," Cramer said. PVH  Corp reported a substantially better-than-expected quarter on  Wednesday, but also had disappointing guidance for the next  quarter. It had a 20-cent earnings beat from a $2.40 basis. The  strength was fueled by its Calvin Klein brand, specifically in  China and Europe.PVH Corp's CEO Manny Chirico told Cramer that going into  Black Friday and right after it, he saw a significant improvement  in its retail business and in trends.  "The question is now we've a big holiday season in front of us. As we always are we're being conservative as we're projecting the  year, and the balance of this quarter, so we'll see how it is.  Trends right now, the last two weeks are running ahead of plan, and  margins are running significantly ahead of plan," Chirico said.  OPEC may have just "engineered the short squeeze of a  lifetime," Cramer said Wednesday.    The stock market gobbled up that short squeeze on Wednesday, as  crude surged 9.3 percent on the news that the Organization  of the Petroleum Exporting Countries finally reached an  agreement to limit oil production for the first time in eight  years.  "Going into the meeting, the Saudis upped their production to  about 11 million barrels a day, from 10 million, so they are  simply going back to where they were last year," Cramer said.  Just doing the math, it made sense to Cramer. Selling 10 million  barrels a day at $50 apiece is more than selling 11 million  barrels at $45. It's also better than selling 11 million at the  $40 price where oil might have otherwise headed. Marathon Petroleum's CEO believes the OPEC  agreement to limit production could finally end a glut  of oil that has hit the price of crude.   "We believe by the end of the first half that the global supply  of crude can be in balance and might even be a little bit of a  supply deficit as we go into the second half of the year," Gary  Heminger told Cramer.  In the Lightning Round, Cramer gave his take on a few stocks from  callers: Acacia  Communications: "We suggested to do this one and it went all  the way up. When they did that last quarter we were not happy  with it because they did have a contract that we thought would  have been big that didn't happen. So, I want you to be careful of  this one — long-term story good, short-term not that good." International Flavors  & Fragrances: "They missed the quarter. They absolutely  missed the quarter. This company has a long history. I would be a  buyer of this company after they report the next quarter. I want  to see what it is, because this quarter was a not good quarter."