  U.S. crude prices tumbled on Wednesday after the  Federal Reserve reiterated that it will be "patient" in raising  rates from record lows but noted that inflation remains well  below its target rate.   In a statement after its latest policy meeting, the Fed  made clear that no rate increase is imminent. Chair Janet Yellen  said after last month's meeting that by saying it would be  "patient," the Fed was signaling there would be no rate increase  for at least two meetings.     The Fed's statement Wednesday said the factors  holding inflation below its 2 percent target rate have  intensified since its last meeting in December. Inflation has  stayed ultra-low partly because of a plunge in energy prices and  a steadily strengthening dollar. U.S. crude for March  delivery hit an intraday low of $44.08 after the Fed  announcement. It settled down $1.78, or about 4 percent, at $44.45, its lowest since March  2009.  Brent crude oil for March  delivery was last down $1.22 at $48.38 a barrel by. It hit a near  six-year low of $45.19 a barrel two weeks ago.   The U.S. Energy Information Administration said U.S. crude stocks  rose by 8.9 million barrels last week to 406.73 million barrels,  the highest level since records began in 1982.  While the build was not quite as large as the 12.7 million barrel  increase reported by industry group the American Petroleum  Institute on Tuesday, prices remained under pressure despite  large draws in gasoline and distillate inventories. Read MoreThis will be 'devastating' for  earnings: Analyst  Gasoline stocks fell by 2.6 million barrels while distillate  stocks, which include diesel and heating oil, fell by 3.9 million  barrels, the EIA said.  "Refined product demand continues to be the sole source of  strength for the market, but it is not enough to overcome the  tidal wave of crude oil supplies for now," said John Kilduff at  Again Capital LLC in New York.Best ways to profit from  beaten-down energy stocks  Fast growing U.S. shale output has pushed oil prices almost 60  percent lower since June, with losses accelerating after the  Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries said it would  not cut output in a bid to preserve its market share.  Analysts at Goldman Sachs said in a note published on Jan. 27  they expected U.S. crude, also known as WTI, to remain near $40 a  barrel in the first half of this year.  "(That) should slow supply growth and balance the global oil  market by 2016," the Goldman analysts said.  "We then expect oil prices to move to the marginal cost of  production," which the bank pegged at $65 a barrel for WTI and  $70 a barrel for Brent. Read MoreGoldman's Cohn: Oil could go to  $30 Brent has consolidated in a narrow range just below $50 in  the past two weeks as traders assess whether further price falls  would push too many small producers out of the  market.AP contributed to this report. 