  Oil prices fell for the second straight session on Monday as Iran  and six world powers negotiated a deal for Tehran's nuclear  program that could end Western sanctions, allowing the OPEC  member to ship more crude into an already flooded market.  Officials close to the talks have said progress has been made and  many investors believe a deal is in the making. Few expect the  talks to end without some sort of agreement.  U.S. crude closed down 19  cents at $48.68 a barrel, off an earlier low of  $47.61. Brent  crude was down 10 cents at $56.31 a barrel after State  Department officials said there is a 50/50 chance of a framework  agreement with Iran.  Read More Iran's nuclear deal and how  it could affect oil  "We're likely to stay jittery through the day on any headline  coming out of Lausanne, and the stronger dollar isn't helping oil  either," said analyst Phil Flynn of Price Futures Group in  Chicago.  The dollar rose as the euro slumped on worries over whether  Greece would secure aid before it runs out of cash in three  weeks. A stronger dollar makes commodities denominated in the  greenback, such as oil, more costly for holders of other  currencies.Brent and U.S. crude tumbled 5 percent on Friday on worries of an  Iran nuclear deal by March 31. Read More This could push oil prices  higher: Strategist  Tehran is keen to recover market share lost under the U.S.-led  sanctions that have restricted its crude exports to just 1  million barrels per day from 2.5 million bpd in 2012.  Oil markets are well supplied, with recent figures showing global  production outstripping demand by around 1.5 million bpd.  "Regarding Iran, there are two possible outcomes: a framework  deal or an extended deadline," Bjarne Schieldrop, chief  commodities analyst at SEB Markets in Oslo, told the Reuters  Global Oil Forum. Societe Generale analyst  Michael Wittner said if a framework agreement was reached, it was  logical to expect "an immediate bearish knee-jerk reaction in the  markets, with oil prices quickly losing on the order of $5." Read MoreAngola joins Venezuela among biggest  losers of oil's tumble  Few investors expect the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, which  pumps around a third of the world's oil, to restrain production  to help push up prices.   Lower oil prices have encouraged some oil and gas companies to  stop drilling, particularly in the United States, but this is  unlikely to affect oil production until later this  year.   "The current rig count is pointing to U.S. production declining  slightly sequentially in 2Q15 and 3Q15," Goldman Sachs said,  adding that activity could bounce back in 2016 as drillers  benefit from falling production costs. 