U.S. production slipped from highs.  Oil supplies hit record levels. Oil ministers and energy  tycoons from Moscow to Riyadh hinted that production cuts — or  at least a meeting to discuss them — are on the table.  A perfect storm appeared to be brewing around oil markets at the  start of the year, but the winds that looked as if they might at least partially reverse the  oil price rout appear to be dying down. Now, a number of experts see 2016 as another waiting game.  The International Energy Agency on Tuesday said it believes  demand growth will fall significantly, and the global oil surplus will be larger than the group earlier forecast.  IEA identified five key factors that could trigger a rebound: a  coordinated output cut by OPEC and non-OPEC producers, slower  OPEC production growth, a boost to demand growth as prices remain  low, U.S. dollar devaluation, and significant declines in  non-OPEC production.  Now, all of those factors are in doubt, IEA said.  OPEC on Wednesday echoed the IEA by lowering its own oil demand  forecast. It said the market remains oversupplied by 2 million barrels per day. Yet it reported that its members' total production rose by  131,000 barrels to an average 32.3 million per day, citing secondary  sources.   Nigeria, Iraq, Saudi Arabia and Iran are responsible for the increases, OPEC  said. Only a day before, an executive at Kuwait Petroleum Corp.  said the country plans to increase production by 150,000 barrels per day.  Those numbers raise concerns about reports lately that players  such as Russia, Saudi Arabia and Iran are serious about meeting  to discuss a production cut.   The Saudis, who spearheaded the current OPEC policy, will not  agree to production cuts until they're confident that U.S. shale  producers will not step up production afterward, John Kilduff, partner at investment advisory firm Again Capital told  CNBC.   The Saudis likely won't feel comfortable about the chances of a U.S. output boost until production in the United States falls to 8.5 million barrels per day, Kilduff said. But it could be next year before U.S. output hits that level, he added.  U.S. oil production has fallen from a peak last year of nearly  9.7 million barrels per day to about 9.2 million, according to  preliminary weekly EIA data.  "Until there's shock and awe in terms of bankruptcies and super-low prices, there's going to be unrelenting selling pressure in  this market," Kilduff said. "We're going to have to wait to see  what happens after the nuclear winter clears."  Kilduff said he's more convinced than ever that U.S. crude will  eventually dip to $18 a barrel. It traded as low as $27.39 on Wednesday.  To be sure, financial pressures are mounting on U.S. drillers as they cope with such low prices. On Monday, investors ran for the exits on a report — later denied  — that No. 2 U.S. natural gas driller Chesapeake Energy had hired advisors to file for  bankruptcy. And on Tuesday, shares of Anadarko Petroleum sold off as  the company slashed its dividend.  Forty-eight North American oil and gas companies have filed for  bankruptcy since 2015, according to law firm Haynes &  Boone. The next shakeout could come in April, when banks reassess the  value of the assets against which drillers borrow money. Lenders  have thus far been accommodating to the energy companies, hoping to avoid pushing energy  firms over the edge and winding up owning their assets.But a survey by Haynes & Boone suggests banks will tighten lending this spring. Lenders expect a 25 percent decrease from 2015  borrowing base levels, while borrowers anticipate a 28 percent  cut.  Kevin Book, head of research at advisory firm ClearView Energy Partners, said that only time can bring cuts to production, and at any rate the effect of  falling output on prices has likely been pushed back to the  fourth quarter of this year.  He called cooperation between OPEC and Russia a myth  and said that coordination within the producer group is greatly  overstated. What's more, OPEC has historically timed cuts to coincide with  thinning inventories in order to gain market power.  IEA said stockpiles for the wealthy countries in the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development were 350 million barrels  above their average for this time of year, and preliminary data  suggest that those stocks have only continued rising. Meanwhile, total U.S.  supplies are near historic highs above 500 million barrels.  "That means a longer workout, a bigger overhang, and no reason to  get excited about a small [price] pop on a short day," Book told CNBC's "Squawk Box" on Tuesday.  Dallas Federal Reserve President Robert Kaplan last week told a  gathering of real estate professionals that it could be mid-2017 until  oil markets balance, Reuters reported. He said the amount of oversupply might remain stuck at  300,000 barrels per day by the end of the year, according to the news agency.