  Crude oil settled up 8 percent, or $3.71, at $48.24 on Friday,  its best day since June 2012, after data showed U.S. drillers  were slamming the brakes on the shale drilling boom.  The commodity still ended the month lower, for a seven-month  decline.    Oil spiked $3 heading into the close on Friday as products were  set to expire on the last day of the month and after oil  companies made further cuts to capital expenditures and took more  rigs offline.  Traders told CNBC they were acting on buy signals that technicals  were showing heading into the weekend.   The number of U.S. rigs in operation fell by another 94 in the  past week through Friday, while Canadian producers took 11 rigs  offline, oilfield services firm Baker  Hughes reported on Friday. Rig counts have been steadily  falling as the price of crude collapses.  The rig count drop was the most since 1987. With drillers having  idled about 24 percent of their oil drilling rigs since the  summer, some traders may be betting that an anticipated slowdown  in U.S. oil production is nearer than expected.  Two weeks of relatively stable oil prices have helped shift  sentiment after months of decline, setting the stage for the  violent rebound on Friday afternoon. Short traders raced to cover  their positions on fears that the rout was nearing its end.  "The rig count number sparked the rally late,'' said Phil Flynn,  analyst at Price Futures Group in Chicago. Read MoreCrude oil bottom seen at $40: CNBC Fed  surveySome traders were not convinced that the  selloff in oil, which has taken Brent down from a June high above $115 a barrel, was over."There was a lot of short-covering before the  month end from people wanting to take profit from the $40-odd lows, so it's not surprising that we rallied, said Tariq Zahir, managing member at Tyche Capital Advisors in Laurel Hollow in New York. ''But this doesn't change the fundamental outlook  in oil. We are still about 2 million barrels oversupplied."  Benchmark crude contracts rose earlier in the day as concerns  over fighting in Iraq extended short covering from the previous  session, but crude prices were still poised for a seventh month  of declines, the longest rout on record.  A supply glut and OPEC's refusal to cut output has driven  benchmark Brent and U.S. crude futures down 60 percent since  June. Chart watchers as well as analysts tracking market  fundamentals believe the selloff will continue for a few more  months at least.  A Reuters poll shows oil prices may post only a mild recovery in  the second half of the year, with prices still averaging less in  2015 than during the global financial crisis. Crude was up in early trading Friday in New York on renewed  violence in oil producer Iraq, where Islamic State militants had  struck at Kurdish forces southwest of the oil-rich city of  Kirkuk.  In a rally that may spur speculation that a seven-month price collapse has ended, global benchmark Brent crude shot up to more than $53, its highest in more than three weeks.  settled up $3.86 at $52.99 per  barrel, after running as high as $53.08. For the month, Brent was down about $5,  or almost 9 percent. It had peaked at above $115 in June. U.S. crude rose $3.71 to end at  $48.24 a barrel. For January, U.S. crude was also down about $6,  or 11 percent. It had traded as high as $107 in June. Read MoreNext for oil: Mergers, layoffs and  'death spirals'  "The renewed fears over (Islamic State militants) and Iraq has  allowed the market to come back a little today, but otherwise the  trend is certainly pointing lower," said John Kilduff, partner at  Again Capital, an energy hedge fund in New York.  Production from OPEC, or the  Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, rose in  January to 30.37 million barrels per day, a Reuters poll showed,  a sign that key members of the group were resolute about  defending their market share.  Data this week also showed U.S. crude oil inventories had reached  their highest levels since the 1930s. Read More Energy M&A may not come  until 2016: Experts  A Reuters survey of 33 economists and analysts forecast that  Brent would average $58.30 a barrel in 2015, down $15.70 from  last month's poll in the biggest month-on-month revision since  prices last collapsed in 2008-2009.  Brent has stayed within a band of $45-$50 since hitting a near  six-year low of $45.19 Jan. 13.