Cuadrilla to start shale gas fracking in UK 
15102018

0907
Natural GasUK's onshore oil and gas exploration company Cuadrilla is set to finally start hydraulic fracturing in Lancashire, northwest England, following a temporary setback Saturday due to weather conditions, Kallanish Energy reports.The company had planned to start fracking at both its horizontal shale wells at the Preston New Road site last week. However, a "last minute" request for an interim injunction to prevent fracking operations from starting meant another delay for Cuadrilla.
 
Due to weather conditions yesterday and this morning we will now start pumping on Monday," a spokeswoman said Saturday. "In high winds we couldn't use the crane to manuever some equipment into place."
 
Under the terms of the planning permission, fracking can be carried out at the site from 8 a.m.-9 p.m. Monday-Friday and 9 a.m.-1 p.m./ on Saturdays.
 
"We're now commencing the final operational phase to evaluate the commercial potential for a new source of indigenous natural gas in Lancashire," said Cuadrilla CEO Francis Egan. "If commercially recoverable, this will displace costly imported gas, with lower emissions, significant economic benefit and better security of energy supply to the UK."
 
Cuadrilla estimates it will take around three months for it to complete both wells, with initial results from flow rate tests expected in the New Year. The resumption of fracking in the UK's onshore industry after seven years, it's seen as a milestone for the industry.
Source: kallanishenergy.com
The company had planned to start fracking at both its horizontal shale wells at the Preston New Road site last week. However, a "last minute" request for an interim injunction to prevent fracking operations from starting meant another delay for Cuadrilla. Due to weather conditions yesterday and this morning we will now start pumping on Monday," a spokeswoman said Saturday. "In high winds we couldn't use the crane to manuever some equipment into place." Under the terms of the planning permission, fracking can be carried out at the site from 8 a.m.-9 p.m. Monday-Friday and 9 a.m.-1 p.m./ on Saturdays. "We're now commencing the final operational phase to evaluate the commercial potential for a new source of indigenous natural gas in Lancashire," said Cuadrilla CEO Francis Egan. "If commercially recoverable, this will displace costly imported gas, with lower emissions, significant economic benefit and better security of energy supply to the UK." Cuadrilla estimates it will take around three months for it to complete both wells, with initial results from flow rate tests expected in the New Year. The resumption of fracking in the UK's onshore industry after seven years, it's seen as a milestone for the industry.Source: kallanishenergy.com