Daily (27.12.2019) Crude oil at the highest level since September on Thursday due to China-U.S. trade pact 
27122019

1022
DailyCrude oil strengthened in post-holiday light trading, with prices hitting the highest level since September, buoyed by optimism that China-U.S. trade conflict will end soon and following API's data report indicating a bigger-than-expected decline in crude stockpiles.Brent crude futures soared by 72 cents, or 1% to settle at $67.92 a barrel on ICE Futures Europe.  WTI crude futures ended the session at $61.68 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange, up 57 cents, or 0.9%. Both benchmarks posted their biggest gain since Sept. 17, when oil futures rocketed in response to an attack on Saudi Arabia's oil infrastructure.

American Petroleum Institute unveiled late Tuesday that U.S. crude inventories fell by 7.9 million barrels for the week ending on Dec. 20. U.S. President Donald Trump declared on Tuesday that a trade deal is completed and will be signed at the White House by him and China's President Xi Jinping. The agreement would be inked during the first week of January. Details of the agreement will be disclosed once signed.
 
The 18-month trade war between the world's largest economies has hampered global economic growth and demand for oil, putting pressure on crude prices for most of the year.
 
Spot electricity prices in Europe firmed on Thursday, spurred by lower wind power generation in Germany and higher consumption in France.
 
German power price for day-ahead delivery rallied 12.5% at 37.82 EUR/MWh, while the French equivalent contract jumped by 27% to trade at 32.72 EUR/MWh.
Brent crude futures soared by 72 cents, or 1% to settle at $67.92 a barrel on ICE Futures Europe.  WTI crude futures ended the session at $61.68 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange, up 57 cents, or 0.9%. Both benchmarks posted their biggest gain since Sept. 17, when oil futures rocketed in response to an attack on Saudi Arabia's oil infrastructure.
American Petroleum Institute unveiled late Tuesday that U.S. crude inventories fell by 7.9 million barrels for the week ending on Dec. 20. U.S. President Donald Trump declared on Tuesday that a trade deal is completed and will be signed at the White House by him and China's President Xi Jinping. The agreement would be inked during the first week of January. Details of the agreement will be disclosed once signed. The 18-month trade war between the world's largest economies has hampered global economic growth and demand for oil, putting pressure on crude prices for most of the year. Spot electricity prices in Europe firmed on Thursday, spurred by lower wind power generation in Germany and higher consumption in France. German power price for day-ahead delivery rallied 12.5% at 37.82 EUR/MWh, while the French equivalent contract jumped by 27% to trade at 32.72 EUR/MWh.