Danish Vestas secures 306MW order for Mexican wind park 
04062018

0831
WindDanish wind energy company Vestas on Friday said it received a 306-megawatt (MW) order from EnerAB, a U.S.-Mexican joint venture, to supply and install 85 3.45 MW turbines at the Mesa La Paz wind park in Mexico's Tamaulipas state."The order includes the supply and installation of 85 V136-3.45 MW turbines, delivered in 3.6 MW Power Optimized Mode, as well as a 15-year Active Output Management 5000 (AOM 5000) service agreement for the operation and maintenance of the wind park," said a press release by Vestas Mediterranean.
 
Turbine delivery and commissioning are expected during 2019, it added.
 
The order is based on a 25-year power purchase agreement (PPA) secured by EnerAB - a joint venture between The AES Corporation and Grupo BAL. The company statement said with the new contract, Vestas' order intake in Mexico reached more than 2.1 gigawatts (GW), including the Reynosa III wind park, which is set to be Mexico's largest.
 
"Vestas continues its strategic focus on the Mexican market by increasing both its manufacturing footprint and installed capacity, which support Mexico's development and create jobs," said Enric Catala, senior director of sales for the Latin America region at Vestas.
 
"With more than 1.3 GW of turbines either under construction or installed in Tamaulipas alone, Mexico has evolved into a strong example for other countries in Latin America for creating a more sustainable energy mix," he added.
 
Juan Ignacio Rubiolo, CEO of EnerAB, said the 306 MW Mesa La Paz wind facility was the first renewable PPA above 300 MW in Mexico financed entirely through a U.S.-held private company.
 
"We choose Vestas as a provider based on our shared strategic focus on the Mexican market and its long-term potential to contribute to a greener energy future.
 
"Through EnerAB, Grupo Bal and AES aim to help Mexico reach its goal of generating 35 percent of its electricity through renewable sources by 2024," he added.
 
Bloomberg New Energy Finance estimates that corporate PPAs in Mexico totaled 5.4 GW in 2017 with this number expected to grow in 2018, according to the statement.
 
By the end of 2017, Vestas had installed more than 4 GW in Latin America and had announced plans to establish production facilities in Mexico together with its partners to serve 4 MW platform blades to all of Latin America.
Source: aa.com.tr
"The order includes the supply and installation of 85 V136-3.45 MW turbines, delivered in 3.6 MW Power Optimized Mode, as well as a 15-year Active Output Management 5000 (AOM 5000) service agreement for the operation and maintenance of the wind park," said a press release by Vestas Mediterranean. Turbine delivery and commissioning are expected during 2019, it added. The order is based on a 25-year power purchase agreement (PPA) secured by EnerAB - a joint venture between The AES Corporation and Grupo BAL. The company statement said with the new contract, Vestas' order intake in Mexico reached more than 2.1 gigawatts (GW), including the Reynosa III wind park, which is set to be Mexico's largest. "Vestas continues its strategic focus on the Mexican market by increasing both its manufacturing footprint and installed capacity, which support Mexico's development and create jobs," said Enric Catala, senior director of sales for the Latin America region at Vestas. "With more than 1.3 GW of turbines either under construction or installed in Tamaulipas alone, Mexico has evolved into a strong example for other countries in Latin America for creating a more sustainable energy mix," he added. Juan Ignacio Rubiolo, CEO of EnerAB, said the 306 MW Mesa La Paz wind facility was the first renewable PPA above 300 MW in Mexico financed entirely through a U.S.-held private company. "We choose Vestas as a provider based on our shared strategic focus on the Mexican market and its long-term potential to contribute to a greener energy future. "Through EnerAB, Grupo Bal and AES aim to help Mexico reach its goal of generating 35 percent of its electricity through renewable sources by 2024," he added. Bloomberg New Energy Finance estimates that corporate PPAs in Mexico totaled 5.4 GW in 2017 with this number expected to grow in 2018, according to the statement. By the end of 2017, Vestas had installed more than 4 GW in Latin America and had announced plans to establish production facilities in Mexico together with its partners to serve 4 MW platform blades to all of Latin America.Source: aa.com.tr