Developers of Viking Link award EUR 1.1bn worth of contracts 
24072019

1015
Electricity MarketThe developers of the 1,400-MW Viking Link interconnector between Denmark and the UK today announced they will award contracts worth a total of EUR 1.1 billion (USD 1.23bn) for the supply of cables and converter stations as part of the project.German industrial giant Siemens AG has been chosen to deliver and install two converter stations. The construction of these stations is supposed to begin next year.
 
Meanwhile, Italian group Prysmian SpA has received a letter of award for a contract worth close to EUR 700 million. Prysmian has been selected to design, manufacture and install the High Voltage Direct Current (HVDC) interconnector with the entire 1,250-km cable for the submarine route and all of the roughly 135 km of land cables on the UK side.
 
Danish group NKT A/S in turn, has won a EUR-90-million contract to supply about 150 km of 525-kV MI high-voltage DC onshore power cables for the 75-km connection of the project from the Danish shore to the power grid substation in Revsing, southern Jutland. NKT expects to begin work next year.
 
All of the above mentioned contracts are expected to be signed in late August.
 
The project is being developed by Danish transmission system operator (TSO) Energinet and National Grid plc. It represents the first submarine cable connection between the UK and Denmark, transmitting power through UK, Dutch, German and Danish waters. The goal of the project is to increase access to renewable and sustainable energy sources to more than 1.4 million households.
 
The 760-km Viking Link's full commissioning is scheduled for late 2023.
Source: renewablesnow.com
German industrial giant Siemens AG has been chosen to deliver and install two converter stations. The construction of these stations is supposed to begin next year. Meanwhile, Italian group Prysmian SpA has received a letter of award for a contract worth close to EUR 700 million. Prysmian has been selected to design, manufacture and install the High Voltage Direct Current (HVDC) interconnector with the entire 1,250-km cable for the submarine route and all of the roughly 135 km of land cables on the UK side. Danish group NKT A/S in turn, has won a EUR-90-million contract to supply about 150 km of 525-kV MI high-voltage DC onshore power cables for the 75-km connection of the project from the Danish shore to the power grid substation in Revsing, southern Jutland. NKT expects to begin work next year. All of the above mentioned contracts are expected to be signed in late August. The project is being developed by Danish transmission system operator (TSO) Energinet and National Grid plc. It represents the first submarine cable connection between the UK and Denmark, transmitting power through UK, Dutch, German and Danish waters. The goal of the project is to increase access to renewable and sustainable energy sources to more than 1.4 million households. The 760-km Viking Link's full commissioning is scheduled for late 2023.Source: renewablesnow.com