  The U.S. dollar hit its highest level against the yen in 8-1/2 months on Wednesday and also surged against the euro and Swiss franc after a surge in  oil prices pushed U.S. Treasury yields higher, while strong  private payrolls data bolstered expectations for a hawkish Federal Reserve next year.The dollar rose about 1.7 percent against the  to 114.43 yen, its highest level since early March. The euro fell about 0.8 percent against the dollar to a session low  of $1.0554 after U.S. crude prices rallied more than 8.5 percent  as some of the world's largest oil producers agreed to curb  oil output for the first time since 2008.  The dollar was last on track to gain about 9 percent  against the yen in November to mark its strongest monthly  performance since August 1995. The dollar also hit a roughly 10-month  high against the Swiss franc of 1.0204 francs.The gains in oil prices boosted views of higher inflation, which in turn sent U.S. Treasury yields higher given the negative impact of inflation on bond prices. The higher  Treasury yields fueled demand for the dollar relative to currencies  such as the euro and yen, whose government bond yields are still low-to-negative."It's the widening of interest rate differentials," said Alvise Marino, FX strategist at Credit Suisse in New York,  in reference to the dollar's gains on the back of higher  Treasury yields. Benchmark 10-year U.S. Treasury note yields  were last up about 10 basis points on the day, at 2.395 percent.A continuation of strong U.S. economic data on Wednesday after a stronger-than-expected gross domestic product  growth reading on Tuesday also supported the dollar by  underpinning expectations that the Fed would raise interest rates next  month and continue to hike at a swift pace next year, analysts said.  ADP National Employment Report data on showed U.S. private employers added 216,000 jobs in November, well above  economists' expectations. The ADP figures precede the U.S. Labor Department's more comprehensive nonfarm payrolls report on Friday."It absolutely blasted expectations, and when you see that happen, that should promote some dollar strength," said  Stephen Casey, senior foreign exchange trader at Cambridge Global Payments in New York.The , which measures the greenback against a basket of six major currencies, was last up about 0.5 percent at 101.46.