Dutch trio plans 10-GW offshore wind hub for green hydrogen 
28022020

0954
RenewableEnergy giant Royal Dutch Shell Plc, gas grid operator Gasunie and port operator Groningen Seaports have teamed up in an ambitious renewable hydrogen project in the north of the Netherlands.Shell presented the plan on Thursday and said new partners are welcome to join the tie-up. The companies plan to kick off this year the feasibility study for the so-called NortH2 project, which aims to reach an annual production of 800,000 tonnes of green hydrogen by 2040 with power from up to 10 GW of offshore wind turbines in the North Sea.
 
An offshore wind complex of between 3 GW and 4 GW is planned to be installed by 2030, while the capacity could be expanded to 10 GW by 2040 with the addition of more turbines.
 
The electrolyser unit will be located in the town of Eemshaven, along the northern coast, with initial production starting in 2027, powered by the first completed wind farms. Shell noted that the possibility of using offshore electrolysis is also being explored.
 
Gasunie's existing natural gas infrastructure will be used to store and distribute the hydrogen. The NortH2 partners expect that the implementation of the project will require Dutch and European subsidies in the initial project phases.
Source: renewablesnow.com
Shell presented the plan on Thursday and said new partners are welcome to join the tie-up. The companies plan to kick off this year the feasibility study for the so-called NortH2 project, which aims to reach an annual production of 800,000 tonnes of green hydrogen by 2040 with power from up to 10 GW of offshore wind turbines in the North Sea. An offshore wind complex of between 3 GW and 4 GW is planned to be installed by 2030, while the capacity could be expanded to 10 GW by 2040 with the addition of more turbines. The electrolyser unit will be located in the town of Eemshaven, along the northern coast, with initial production starting in 2027, powered by the first completed wind farms. Shell noted that the possibility of using offshore electrolysis is also being explored. Gasunie's existing natural gas infrastructure will be used to store and distribute the hydrogen. The NortH2 partners expect that the implementation of the project will require Dutch and European subsidies in the initial project phases.Source: renewablesnow.com