Dutch conglomerate wants to develop the first floating solar plant 
15022018

1420
SolarDutch consortium plans to build first floating solar power facility, as the research stage of the project has been launched.The conglomerate, which comprises Oceans of Energy, Energy Research Centre of the Netherlands, TNO, TAQA and the Maritime Research Institute Netherlands, is collaborating with Ultrecht University for the three-year period.

The university is making a study into the energy generation of the offshore similar site, which is situated approximately 15 kilometres off the coast close to The Hague.

Allard van Hoeken, Founder of Oceans of Energy said: "What we intend to do here in three years' time is remarkable and has never been done before. While solar farms have been constructed on inland bodies of water before, they have never been built offshore because of the difficulty of the undertaking. After all, it's a place where you're dealing with huge waves and other destructive forces of nature. With the knowledge and experience of these Dutch institutions and businesses from the offshore industry, however, we are convinced we will succeed."
 
Netherlands Enterprise Agency is backing the project.
 
The conglomerate, which comprises Oceans of Energy, Energy Research Centre of the Netherlands, TNO, TAQA and the Maritime Research Institute Netherlands, is collaborating with Ultrecht University for the three-year period.
The university is making a study into the energy generation of the offshore similar site, which is situated approximately 15 kilometres off the coast close to The Hague.
Allard van Hoeken, Founder of Oceans of Energy said: "What we intend to do here in three years' time is remarkable and has never been done before. While solar farms have been constructed on inland bodies of water before, they have never been built offshore because of the difficulty of the undertaking. After all, it's a place where you're dealing with huge waves and other destructive forces of nature. With the knowledge and experience of these Dutch institutions and businesses from the offshore industry, however, we are convinced we will succeed." Netherlands Enterprise Agency is backing the project.
 