EBRD extends renewable energy programme for Kazakhstan 
16092019

0927
RenewableThe EBRD is pledging fresh funds to support Kazakhstan's drive as a regional leader to promote renewable energy, with the help of a second phase of the Bank's Kazakhstan Renewables Framework of up to EUR300 million, the Bank reported.The facility will promote solar, wind, hydro, biogas, distribution and transmission projects and is expected to reduce CO2 emissions by at least 500,000 tonnes per year.
 
The EBRD Board of Directors approved the extension to the existing Framework, which has been almost fully utilised. The first phase supported the creation of 262 MW of renewable power-generation capacity across the country, attracted four private international investors and supported a grid-strengthening project.
 
The extension of the Kazakhstan Renewables Framework will help the country to reach its renewable energy targets of 3 per cent of generation by 2020 and 50 per cent by 2050 and to meet its commitments under the Paris Climate Agreement.
 
To date, the EBRD has invested over EUR8.3 billion (US$ 9.1 billion equivalent) through 262 projects in the economy of Kazakhstan. Over EUR2 billion of this funding has supported Green Economy Transition projects.
 
The Bank is the largest international investor in the country's economy outside of the oil and gas sectors and has a wide presence in Kazakhstan, with two Resident Offices in Nur-Sultan and Almaty as well as five local offices for outreach in remote areas of the country.
Source: akipress.com
The facility will promote solar, wind, hydro, biogas, distribution and transmission projects and is expected to reduce CO2 emissions by at least 500,000 tonnes per year. The EBRD Board of Directors approved the extension to the existing Framework, which has been almost fully utilised. The first phase supported the creation of 262 MW of renewable power-generation capacity across the country, attracted four private international investors and supported a grid-strengthening project. The extension of the Kazakhstan Renewables Framework will help the country to reach its renewable energy targets of 3 per cent of generation by 2020 and 50 per cent by 2050 and to meet its commitments under the Paris Climate Agreement. To date, the EBRD has invested over EUR8.3 billion (US$ 9.1 billion equivalent) through 262 projects in the economy of Kazakhstan. Over EUR2 billion of this funding has supported Green Economy Transition projects. The Bank is the largest international investor in the country's economy outside of the oil and gas sectors and has a wide presence in Kazakhstan, with two Resident Offices in Nur-Sultan and Almaty as well as five local offices for outreach in remote areas of the country.Source: akipress.com