EnBW signals 800MW solar surge 
07022019

0951
SolarEnBW has added about 800MW of new solar capacity to its development pipeline as part of a strategy to boost the company's renewables portfolio.The first major project will be the 175MW Weesow-Willmersdorf plant at Werneuchen in the region of Brandenburg in Germany, EnBW said.
 
Weesow-Willmersdorf, which was acquired from Procon Solar last year, will cover 164 hectares and deliver 175 gigawatt-hours of electricity a year.
 
EnBW head of generation portfolio development Dirk Gusewell said: "We have seen a remarkable development over the past few years in solar technology.
 
"Due to technical advances, the cost of constructing solar parks has fallen dramatically - by up to 90% over the last 10 years in Germany.
 
"Therefore, today the costs involved in solar energy are on at least an equal footing with other technologies - which has also been demonstrated by the results of the latest auctions.
 
"We anticipate that the first large solar projects will be realised without EEG funding in the foreseeable future. Solar energy thus has a realistic chance of achieving this market maturity."
Source: renews.biz
The first major project will be the 175MW Weesow-Willmersdorf plant at Werneuchen in the region of Brandenburg in Germany, EnBW said. Weesow-Willmersdorf, which was acquired from Procon Solar last year, will cover 164 hectares and deliver 175 gigawatt-hours of electricity a year. EnBW head of generation portfolio development Dirk Gusewell said: "We have seen a remarkable development over the past few years in solar technology. "Due to technical advances, the cost of constructing solar parks has fallen dramatically - by up to 90% over the last 10 years in Germany. "Therefore, today the costs involved in solar energy are on at least an equal footing with other technologies - which has also been demonstrated by the results of the latest auctions. "We anticipate that the first large solar projects will be realised without EEG funding in the foreseeable future. Solar energy thus has a realistic chance of achieving this market maturity."Source: renews.biz