Enel partners Powel to take advantage of the changing Italian market 
13022020

1054
Electricity MarketThe Norwegian software company already includes Axpo, E.ON, Fortum, Luminus, RWE, Statkraft, Uniper and Vattenfall as clients. Enel has signed a strategic partnership with software company Powel to use its smart energy management software for optimisation, marketing and trading.
 
Powel's software will be used to forecast and optimise Enel's generation in Italy, where the company has around 700 production units. Of these around 200 are flexible hydropower plants and 50 flexible thermal power plants.
 
The software allows these assets to be monitored in real time, and provides improved data quality that enables process efficiency and short term optimisation activities. The company says this enables a 5% top line growth for those using it.

But the agreement with Enel is "the largest contact in Powel's history" according to Trond Straume, CEO at Powel.
 
"The contract with Enel means a lot to us both in terms of market visibility and for further development of our products. We expect further growth in Europe."
 
The Italian energy market is changing, leading to some new opportunities Enel intends to take advantage of. Marco Virgili, head of energy management digital factory at Enel said that the Powel software will allow it to increase its revenue from the asset backed system portfolio.
 
"The competences of Powel and the capabilities of the solution are the most important reasons why we decided on Powel as a partner," he continued.
 
Enel has 73 million end users around the world, produces 250TWh of power annually and has an annual revenue of EUR73 million.
 
Its subsidiaries Enel X and eMotorWerks operate in the UK.
 
It is increasingly focusing on renewables and clean technologies, announcing last year that it was increasing investment between 2020 and 2022 to in excess of EUR28 billion. This marks an increase of 11% on the plan it had previously outlined, and will allow the renewables share of Enel's assets to increase to 60%.
 
Source: current-news.co.uk
Enel has signed a strategic partnership with software company Powel to use its smart energy management software for optimisation, marketing and trading. Powel's software will be used to forecast and optimise Enel's generation in Italy, where the company has around 700 production units. Of these around 200 are flexible hydropower plants and 50 flexible thermal power plants. The software allows these assets to be monitored in real time, and provides improved data quality that enables process efficiency and short term optimisation activities. The company says this enables a 5% top line growth for those using it.
But the agreement with Enel is "the largest contact in Powel's history" according to Trond Straume, CEO at Powel. "The contract with Enel means a lot to us both in terms of market visibility and for further development of our products. We expect further growth in Europe." The Italian energy market is changing, leading to some new opportunities Enel intends to take advantage of. Marco Virgili, head of energy management digital factory at Enel said that the Powel software will allow it to increase its revenue from the asset backed system portfolio. "The competences of Powel and the capabilities of the solution are the most important reasons why we decided on Powel as a partner," he continued. Enel has 73 million end users around the world, produces 250TWh of power annually and has an annual revenue of EUR73 million. Its subsidiaries Enel X and eMotorWerks operate in the UK. It is increasingly focusing on renewables and clean technologies, announcing last year that it was increasing investment between 2020 and 2022 to in excess of EUR28 billion. This marks an increase of 11% on the plan it had previously outlined, and will allow the renewables share of Enel's assets to increase to 60%. Source: current-news.co.uk