Energean begins production from Epsilon oil field offshore Greece 
10042019

0901
Oil MarketEnergean Oil and Gas has started production from the Epsilon oil field located in the Gulf of Kavala in the Aegean Sea off the coast of northern Greece.First production from the Epsilon oil field was achieved following the completion of drilling operations of the EA-H3 extended reach well with the company-owned Energean Force drilling rig.
 
Currently, EA-H3 is producing at a stable dry oil rate of over 1,000 bopd on a restricted choke, said Energean.
 
Drilled to a total measured depth of 5,679m, and in line with pre-drill expectations, the extended reach well intersected 689m of the Epsilon sandstone reservoir. The well was drilled to fast track first production from the Epsilon accumulation under the Epsilon full field development.
 
The Epsilon oil field, which is located 4km north west of the producing Prinos field, is contained in water depth of 30m. It was discovered in 2000 after Well E-1 tested sour crude oil with an API gravity of 36 degrees in reservoirs of the Prinos Group at a depth of nearly 2,800m.
Source: compelo.com
First production from the Epsilon oil field was achieved following the completion of drilling operations of the EA-H3 extended reach well with the company-owned Energean Force drilling rig. Currently, EA-H3 is producing at a stable dry oil rate of over 1,000 bopd on a restricted choke, said Energean. Drilled to a total measured depth of 5,679m, and in line with pre-drill expectations, the extended reach well intersected 689m of the Epsilon sandstone reservoir. The well was drilled to fast track first production from the Epsilon accumulation under the Epsilon full field development. The Epsilon oil field, which is located 4km north west of the producing Prinos field, is contained in water depth of 30m. It was discovered in 2000 after Well E-1 tested sour crude oil with an API gravity of 36 degrees in reservoirs of the Prinos Group at a depth of nearly 2,800m.Source: compelo.com