Equinor to drill seven new wells at Gullfaks to recover even more resources 
16012019

0922
Oil MarketNorwegian oil and gas major Equinor and its partners have decided to drill seven new wells at Gullfaks field located offshore Norway and improve oil recovery by 17 million barrels.Equinor is the operator of the Gullfaks field with a 51% interest and its partners are Petoro (30%) and OMV (19%). Gullfaks lies in the Tampen area in the northern part of the North Sea. Water depth in the area is 130-220 meters.
 
On behalf of the license partners, Equinor's executive vice president for Development and Production Norway, Arne Sigve Nylund, on Tuesday presented an amended plan for development and operation (PDO) to the minister of petroleum and energy, Kjell-Borge Freiberg, at the Sandefjord Conference.
 
"Our ambition is to maintain profitable production from the Norwegian continental shelf (NCS) for several decades. Wells that can be drilled fast and at a low cost, near existing infrastructure, will be a major contributor," said Nylund.
 
Equinor said that the partners would invest about NOK 2.3 billion ($269.1M) in the Gullfaks project.
Source: offshoreenergytoday.com
Equinor is the operator of the Gullfaks field with a 51% interest and its partners are Petoro (30%) and OMV (19%). Gullfaks lies in the Tampen area in the northern part of the North Sea. Water depth in the area is 130-220 meters. On behalf of the license partners, Equinor's executive vice president for Development and Production Norway, Arne Sigve Nylund, on Tuesday presented an amended plan for development and operation (PDO) to the minister of petroleum and energy, Kjell-Borge Freiberg, at the Sandefjord Conference. "Our ambition is to maintain profitable production from the Norwegian continental shelf (NCS) for several decades. Wells that can be drilled fast and at a low cost, near existing infrastructure, will be a major contributor," said Nylund. Equinor said that the partners would invest about NOK 2.3 billion ($269.1M) in the Gullfaks project.Source: offshoreenergytoday.com