Equinor to buy Barra's 10% stake in Brazil's Carcara 
05072018

0901
Oil MarketBarra Energia CEO Renato Bertani (left), and Anders Opedal, Equinor Brazil country manager (right). Photo courtesy of Equinor.Norway's Equinor signed an agreement with Brazilian Barra Energia (Barra) to acquire a 10 percent interest in the BM-S-8 block in Brazil's Santos basin for $379 million, the company announced Wednesday.
 
With this move, Equinor's share in the BM-S-8 will increase to 46.5 percent from 36.5 percent, according to the company. ExxonMobil currently owns a 36.5 percent stake, and Galp holds the remaining 17 percent.
 
"This transaction will enable Equinor and its partners to fully align interests across the two licenses for the Carcara area, which contains approximately 2 billion recoverable barrels of oil equivalent," Equinor said.
 
In early June, Equinor, ExxonMobil and Galp completed transactions in the BM-S-8 block to start aligning their equity interests with those the three partners hold in the adjacent Carcara North block, which, together with BM-S-8, comprises the Carcara area.
 
"Equinor is the operator of both blocks and aims to develop the unitized field with the ambition to deliver first oil between 2023 and 2024," the statement said.
 
Upon closing, which is subject to customary conditions, including partner and government approval, and price adjustments in consideration of a reference date of July 2016, Equinor intends to sell down 3.5 percent to ExxonMobil and 3 percent to Galp, therefore fully aligning interests across BM-S-8 and Carcara North.
 
After transactions with ExxonMobil and Galp, Equinor and ExxonMobil will each hold a 40 percent stake in BM-S-8 and Carcara North, with Galp holding the remaining 20 percent for both.
Source: aa.com.tr
Norway's Equinor signed an agreement with Brazilian Barra Energia (Barra) to acquire a 10 percent interest in the BM-S-8 block in Brazil's Santos basin for $379 million, the company announced Wednesday. With this move, Equinor's share in the BM-S-8 will increase to 46.5 percent from 36.5 percent, according to the company. ExxonMobil currently owns a 36.5 percent stake, and Galp holds the remaining 17 percent. "This transaction will enable Equinor and its partners to fully align interests across the two licenses for the Carcara area, which contains approximately 2 billion recoverable barrels of oil equivalent," Equinor said. In early June, Equinor, ExxonMobil and Galp completed transactions in the BM-S-8 block to start aligning their equity interests with those the three partners hold in the adjacent Carcara North block, which, together with BM-S-8, comprises the Carcara area. "Equinor is the operator of both blocks and aims to develop the unitized field with the ambition to deliver first oil between 2023 and 2024," the statement said. Upon closing, which is subject to customary conditions, including partner and government approval, and price adjustments in consideration of a reference date of July 2016, Equinor intends to sell down 3.5 percent to ExxonMobil and 3 percent to Galp, therefore fully aligning interests across BM-S-8 and Carcara North. After transactions with ExxonMobil and Galp, Equinor and ExxonMobil will each hold a 40 percent stake in BM-S-8 and Carcara North, with Galp holding the remaining 20 percent for both.Source: aa.com.tr