Equinor gets NPD approval to begin production at Aasta Hansteen gas field 
04092018

0924
Natural GasEquinor and its partners have secured approval from the Norwegian Petroleum Directorate (NPD) for the start-up of the production facility at the Aasta Hansteen gas field.The Norwegian gas field has been developed using a SPAR platform with a total investment of around NOK 37.5 billion ($4.47bn). The platform is a floating installation with a vertical cylindrical hull that has been moored to the seabed.
 
Equinor, which is the operator of the Aasta Hansteen gas field, is targeting to begin production during the course of autumn 2018.
 
The offshore gas field is located near 320km west of Bodo and is contained in water depth of 1,270m.
 
The SPAR platform is claimed to be the largest of its kind in the world weighing 70,000 tonnes. It is also thought to be the first such offshore platform in the world to have a condensate storage tank.
 
According to Equinor, the installation of the SPAR platform comprises conventional topsides with processing facilities. The risers at the platform will transport the gas from the seabed to the Aasta Hansteen platform through the 480km Polarled gas pipeline to the Nyhamna terminal in More og Romsdal for further export to the UK.
Source: compelo.com
The Norwegian gas field has been developed using a SPAR platform with a total investment of around NOK 37.5 billion ($4.47bn). The platform is a floating installation with a vertical cylindrical hull that has been moored to the seabed. Equinor, which is the operator of the Aasta Hansteen gas field, is targeting to begin production during the course of autumn 2018. The offshore gas field is located near 320km west of Bodo and is contained in water depth of 1,270m. The SPAR platform is claimed to be the largest of its kind in the world weighing 70,000 tonnes. It is also thought to be the first such offshore platform in the world to have a condensate storage tank. According to Equinor, the installation of the SPAR platform comprises conventional topsides with processing facilities. The risers at the platform will transport the gas from the seabed to the Aasta Hansteen platform through the 480km Polarled gas pipeline to the Nyhamna terminal in More og Romsdal for further export to the UK.Source: compelo.com