Estonia launches review process of Eesti's 1-GW offshore wind project 
02012020

0826
WindThe Estonian government has kicked off the construction permit approval process for a 1-GW offshore wind farm in the Gulf of Riga.The scheme, proposed by state-owned electricity generator Eesti Energia, could become the first joint Estonian-Latvian renewable energy project, Eesti Energia's subsidiary Enefit Green announced. The Latvian offshore wind development area is just 10 km away from the Gulf of Riga.
 
According to the government, the proposed area is well suited for wind energy development, a fact being supported by wind, ice and bird surveys carried out by the developer. The start of the permission procedure allows Eesti Energia to look for construction partners, the state-owned firm said, adding that a project of this scale requires cooperation.
 
The idea for the Gulf of Riga offshore wind project was born in 2009. Eesti Energia's plan involves the installation of up to 160 turbines, planned to become operational before 2030. If built, the huge wind farm will be able to cover almost 50% of Estonia's power demand.
 
The ministers of economy of Estonia and Latvia recently met to discuss a joint offshore wind project in the Gulf of Riga.
Source: renewablesnow.com
The scheme, proposed by state-owned electricity generator Eesti Energia, could become the first joint Estonian-Latvian renewable energy project, Eesti Energia's subsidiary Enefit Green announced. The Latvian offshore wind development area is just 10 km away from the Gulf of Riga. According to the government, the proposed area is well suited for wind energy development, a fact being supported by wind, ice and bird surveys carried out by the developer. The start of the permission procedure allows Eesti Energia to look for construction partners, the state-owned firm said, adding that a project of this scale requires cooperation. The idea for the Gulf of Riga offshore wind project was born in 2009. Eesti Energia's plan involves the installation of up to 160 turbines, planned to become operational before 2030. If built, the huge wind farm will be able to cover almost 50% of Estonia's power demand. The ministers of economy of Estonia and Latvia recently met to discuss a joint offshore wind project in the Gulf of Riga.Source: renewablesnow.com