European gas prices set to slump 
19022020

0909
Natural GasEarlier this month analysts sounded the alarm for European natural gas prices when it turned out that a lot of Asian buyers are turning down LNG cargoes and Europe is taking these in, filling up its storage space. Now, everyone seems to be wondering when prices will bottom out, if they will bottom out at all.Gas is in a bear market at the moment. In Europe, the benchmark has lost 27 percent since the start of the year after losing close to 50 percent last year, Bloomberg's Vanessa Dezem and Will Mathis wrote earlier this week. Reporting from the E-World event in Germany, they also quoted traders and analysts as saying they wouldn't venture a guess at how low price could fall further. This could be a worrying sign.
 
Natural gas production has been rising globally. It's not just the United States, although the U.S. is leading the charge with its cheap fracked gas, but it's also Australia, Israel, Russia, and Norway, among others. There is more gas on offer now but demand is stuttering. The coronavirus is the immediate culprit: it hit China's energy demand and whatever hits China's energy demand also hits global demand.
 
Europe is currently between the rock of growing energy demand and the hard place of emission-related commitments. And while spread between these, it is being drowned in gas that is getting increasingly cheaper. How cheap could it get? Possibly cheap enough to make Norway turn the taps off: an Equinor executive had this message for those worried about Europe's gas problem:
 
"If someone is hoping for supply relief from Norway, we will have to disappoint them," senior VP Tor Martin Anfinnsen told Bloomberg. "We will be the last ones to turn off the taps. We are far away from reducing flows."
Source: oilprice.com
Gas is in a bear market at the moment. In Europe, the benchmark has lost 27 percent since the start of the year after losing close to 50 percent last year, Bloomberg's Vanessa Dezem and Will Mathis wrote earlier this week. Reporting from the E-World event in Germany, they also quoted traders and analysts as saying they wouldn't venture a guess at how low price could fall further. This could be a worrying sign. Natural gas production has been rising globally. It's not just the United States, although the U.S. is leading the charge with its cheap fracked gas, but it's also Australia, Israel, Russia, and Norway, among others. There is more gas on offer now but demand is stuttering. The coronavirus is the immediate culprit: it hit China's energy demand and whatever hits China's energy demand also hits global demand. Europe is currently between the rock of growing energy demand and the hard place of emission-related commitments. And while spread between these, it is being drowned in gas that is getting increasingly cheaper. How cheap could it get? Possibly cheap enough to make Norway turn the taps off: an Equinor executive had this message for those worried about Europe's gas problem: "If someone is hoping for supply relief from Norway, we will have to disappoint them," senior VP Tor Martin Anfinnsen told Bloomberg. "We will be the last ones to turn off the taps. We are far away from reducing flows."Source: oilprice.com