  European shares closed higher on Thursday with investors  reacting to fresh data from the euro zone, but oil and gas stocks saw heavy selling after the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries  (OPEC) decided to leave output unchanged.Read MoreOPEC will not cut oil production: Saudi minister OPEC production unchanged  The pan-European Euro Stoxx 600  Index closed 0.3 percent higher at 347, after a  successful run of gains this week. Only the energy sector saw declines and was the major  laggard as the softer price of oil weighed on the large  producers.  Brent crude slipped below $73 per barrel and oil  stocks tumbled over 4 percent after OPEC decided not to cut  production, despite a large oversupply in world markets.Read MoreOil falls $3 to 4-year low after OPEC leaves output  The ministers of the cartel convened at their annual meeting in  Vienna where they decided to leave OPEC's official quota of 30  million barrels a day unchanged, after producers led by Saudi  Arabia won the case for keeping production the same.   Oil majors fell to the bottom of the FTSE 100, which ended 0.1 lower with Petrofac losing over 6 percent and Royal Dutch Shell down over 3 percent.   The French CAC unofficially ended  0.2 percent higher and Germany's DAX closed around 0.5 percent higher.  Data released, Draghi speech  The French CAC reopened at around 11:30 a.m. London time after  being delayed due to technical incident at Euronext. The company  told CNBC that individual stocks were trading and updating  normally but the indexes - which also included  the Portuguese PSI - were unable to be updated for much of  the morning session. Read MoreEuronext glitch delays cash and  derivatives indices  On the data front, German inflation data came in at 0.5 percent  in November, its lowest level since February 2010. The country  has been hit by stumbling growth and there is a lingering threat  of deflation - when prices start to fall - in the region.  Final gross domestic product data  for Spain showed growth of 1.6 percent in the third quarter  compared to the same period last year. Other data releases today  include Swiss growth figures. In prepared comments for a speech by  Draghi, released earlier in the session, he said that the governing  council was unanimous in its commitment to use further  instruments if needed but added that monetary policy alone cannot  do all the heavy lifting. Read MoreEurope's economyfaces three major  risks: Draghi  Speculation has grown over when he will  launch a full-scale asset purchasing program amid persistent  opposition from German officials like  the Bundesbank's Jens Weidmann.US closed  Meanwhile, trading could be light with U.S. markets closed for  the Thanksgiving holiday on Thursday and set to reopen on Friday  for a shortened session. Asian stocks were mixed on Thursday following a  record close on Wall Street, with Japanese markets continuing to  underperform due to a stronger currency.  Follow us on Twitter: @CNBCWorld