Exxon, Rosneft to build LNG plant with Japanese, Indian partners 
24102018

0948
LNGRussia's Rosneft and US ExxonMobil plan to build a liquefied natural gas (LNG) plant in a consortium with Indian and Japanese partners, spreading the estimated $15 billion cost, two sources familiar with the talks said.The four companies - Rosneft, Exxon, Japan's SODECO and India's ONGC Videsh - are partners in the Sakhalin-1 group of fields that will supply the gas, but Exxon and Rosneft had initially planned to build the LNG plant without the other consortium members.
 
Initially, Rosneft and Exxon unveiled their joint plans to build an LNG production site in Russia's Far East to President Vladimir Putin in 2013.
 
LNG production itself is not subject to sanctions, but Russian companies have limited access to financial markets due to the restrictions. Exxon had to leave most of its other new joint projects with Rosneft due to the West's punitive measures against Moscow.
 
Sakhalin-1, a hydrocarbon project, is led by Exxon with a 30 percent stake. Twenty percent belongs to Rosneft, with the rest split between SODECO (30 percent) and ONGC Videsh (20 percent).
 
Sakhalin-1 is pumping close to 300,000 barrels of crude oil per day, a record high, as well as natural gas that it has been unable to sell abroad. Gazprom has the exclusive rights to export pipeline gas from Russia.
Source: moneycontrol.com
The four companies - Rosneft, Exxon, Japan's SODECO and India's ONGC Videsh - are partners in the Sakhalin-1 group of fields that will supply the gas, but Exxon and Rosneft had initially planned to build the LNG plant without the other consortium members. Initially, Rosneft and Exxon unveiled their joint plans to build an LNG production site in Russia's Far East to President Vladimir Putin in 2013. LNG production itself is not subject to sanctions, but Russian companies have limited access to financial markets due to the restrictions. Exxon had to leave most of its other new joint projects with Rosneft due to the West's punitive measures against Moscow. Sakhalin-1, a hydrocarbon project, is led by Exxon with a 30 percent stake. Twenty percent belongs to Rosneft, with the rest split between SODECO (30 percent) and ONGC Videsh (20 percent). Sakhalin-1 is pumping close to 300,000 barrels of crude oil per day, a record high, as well as natural gas that it has been unable to sell abroad. Gazprom has the exclusive rights to export pipeline gas from Russia.Source: moneycontrol.com