  Energy traders are closely watching renewed  fighting in Iraq, trying to gauge worst- and best-case scenarios  for OPEC's second-biggest oil  producer—and the coming weeks could be critical.  "This situation now certainly has the market on tenterhooks. It's  why we're seeing the price of oil somewhat elevated" despite a  period of relatively contained demand, said John Kilduff,  founding partner of commodities-focused investment firm  AgainCapital. "This is a very troubling development for the  oil market for consumer nations," Kilduff said.  (Read more: Oil price caught up in fallout from Iran nuclear  deal)  This month, the Iraqi government of Prime Minister Nouri  al-Maliki  to the  Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL), a group that wants  to establish a strict religious state across western Iraq's Anbar  province and eastern Syria.News media, particularly in the United States, have made much of  ISIL's declared allegiance to al-Qaeda. But more important for  Iraq and the wider region, Middle East watchers say, is the fact  ISIL is a Sunni movement in a Shia-majority country. For that  reason, any worsening of violence in Fallujah could spark wider  unrest across Iraq or the larger Middle East.  "The latest episode establishes another theater in a violent  Sunni-Shiite regional power struggle that is already taking place  in such places as Syria, Lebanon and Bahrain," said Ted  Carpenter, senior fellow for defense and foreign policy studies  at the Cato Institute. "It is dangerously simplistic to attribute  the new turmoil in Anbar entirely to the actions of [an]  al-Qaeda affiliate."(Read more: Iran puts out the welcome mat  for Big Oil)  Reports from Anbar have indicated that ISIL even enjoys some  support from otherwise unradicalized Sunnis in the region, though  sources who spoke with CNBC disagreed on that point. Al-Maliki  has systematically placed his fellow Shiites in powerful  government positions in Iraq and has drawn Iraq closer to  Shia-dominated Iran. He's widely accused of alienating Anbar's  minority Sunni population., though pipelines transport 1.5 million to 2 million barrels of oil through the  province daily. But violence in the region still affects markets, said Seth Jones, an associate director  RAND Corp.'s International Security and Defense Policy Center and  a former senior adviser to the U.S. Special Operations Command.  "This is not the area where most of Iraq's oil fields are  located, but instability in general in Iraq and the perception  that there could be a civil war may affect energy markets," he  said. Jones was quick to say he believes an outright civil war in Iraq is unlikely, but he and  others who spoke to CNBC said that chaos in Anbar could inspire  other groups that are already unfriendly to al-Maliki's  government and Shiites in general—especially the Kurds in  Iraq's oil-rich north—to become restive themselves.  "The worst-case scenario is for the Kurds to say, 'OK, enough of  you guys. We don't want anything to do with you. All non-Kurds  out'," said Farouk El-Baz, a research professor at Boston  University who served as adviser to the former Egyptian  government of Anwar Sadat. "They can do that. They have the  resources. They have a lot of oil. Then the Kurds in Iraq and Turkey and Syria will all fight for their own nation."The coming weeks are critical. Al-Maliki has shown signs of trying to entice local tribal leaders to fight ISIL, but with the Iraqi army now surrounding Fallujah, an assault or bombardment is always possible. Regardless, the prime minister will feel pressure to act soon.Parliamentary elections are set for April, and factions opposed to Iraq's Shiite-dominated government are likely to foment more trouble ahead of voting, said Charles Lister, a visiting fellow at the Brookings Doha Center. "Violence will likely reach a peak in the days and weeks prior to the elections," he said.  The latest violence comes at a time when Middle Eastern oil  production had appeared closer to some semblance of  stability   As 2013 came to an end, events seemed to be aligning for an  increase of oil supplies from the region. Libyan production,  disrupted since that country's civil war, looked as if it may  come back online. More importantly, Iran began edging toward a possible nuclear deal with the  West that could result in a lifting of export sanctions  there.   (Read more: Iran nuclear deal to take  effect Jan. 20)  The fall of Fallujah changed all that, said Kilduff.  "We were looking at maybe going below $80 a barrel and a gas cost  of below $2.50 a gallon on average, but it doesn't look like  that's going to happen now," Kilduff said.  "We're all just holding our breath here," he said. "The Iraqi  government has made enough noise for the energy market to believe  something is imminent." —By CNBC's Ted Kemp and Yousef Gamal El-Din. Follow them  on Twitter at @TedKempCNBC  and @youseftv. 