Finnish EPR receives operating licence 
08032019

0903
NuclearThe Finnish government today granted utility Teollisuuden Voima Oyj (TVO) an operating licence for the first-of-a-kind EPR at Olkiluoto. Once it enters commercial operation early next year, the 1600 MWe pressurised water reactor will supply some 15% of the country's electricity demand.Today's announcement by the Ministry of Employment and the Economy (TEM) followed the submission of a positive statement and security assessment to the ministry on 25 February by Finland's Radiation and Nuclear Safety Authority (Stuk). Stuk's safety assessment concluded that the plant has been constructed to be safe and that TVO is able to operate it safely. The regulator said it saw no reason why an operating licence for Olkiluoto 3(OL3) should not be granted.
 
Jarmo Tanhua, president and CEO of TVO, welcomed the "historical decision" to grant the operating licence for OL3, the first to be granted for a new nuclear power plant in Finland since 1979.
 
"This decision is for us significant acknowledgement of the work we do and the expertise we possess in Olkiluoto," he said. "It has been a long project. The operating licence is an important step towards the start of electricity production and us fulfilling the expectations that were set for the construction decision at that time, concerning security of electricity supply in Finland, as well as the reduction of emissions and dependence on imports."
 
Marjo Mustonen, senior vice president of electricity production at TVO said the commissioning of OL3 will be the "greatest single action for the benefit of the climate ever in Finnish history".
Source: world-nuclear-news.org
Today's announcement by the Ministry of Employment and the Economy (TEM) followed the submission of a positive statement and security assessment to the ministry on 25 February by Finland's Radiation and Nuclear Safety Authority (Stuk). Stuk's safety assessment concluded that the plant has been constructed to be safe and that TVO is able to operate it safely. The regulator said it saw no reason why an operating licence for Olkiluoto 3(OL3) should not be granted. Jarmo Tanhua, president and CEO of TVO, welcomed the "historical decision" to grant the operating licence for OL3, the first to be granted for a new nuclear power plant in Finland since 1979. "This decision is for us significant acknowledgement of the work we do and the expertise we possess in Olkiluoto," he said. "It has been a long project. The operating licence is an important step towards the start of electricity production and us fulfilling the expectations that were set for the construction decision at that time, concerning security of electricity supply in Finland, as well as the reduction of emissions and dependence on imports." Marjo Mustonen, senior vice president of electricity production at TVO said the commissioning of OL3 will be the "greatest single action for the benefit of the climate ever in Finnish history".Source: world-nuclear-news.org