Finnish energy company will supply 60MW power plant in West Africa 
27122017

1322
Electricity MarketA Finnish energy company named Wartsila will deliver a 60MW power plant in West Africa.The company launched a project aiming to provide electricity for the second stage of the Tasiast Mine expansion, located in Mauritania, West Africa.

Energy generation at Phase Two is scheduled to start close to the end of 2020. The firm also supplied the engines for the 19MW power plant providing the necessary service for the initial stage of the project. 
 
Tasiast Mauritanie, a division of Canadian gold mining company Kinross Gold Corporation, is the partner in this deal.
 
The parties involved want the Phase Two project aim to deliver substantial economic assistance for Mauritania and its population via additional taxes, duties, salaries and locally supplied goods and services.

Marie-Andree Truchi, Senior Business Development Manager at the firm, said: "Wartsila has worked with Kinross earlier and there is no better endorsement of customer satisfaction than to win a repeat order. This engineering, procurement and construction project indicates the broad scope of Wartsila's capabilities."
The company launched a project aiming to provide electricity for the second stage of the Tasiast Mine expansion, located in Mauritania, West Africa.
Energy generation at Phase Two is scheduled to start close to the end of 2020. The firm also supplied the engines for the 19MW power plant providing the necessary service for the initial stage of the project.  Tasiast Mauritanie, a division of Canadian gold mining company Kinross Gold Corporation, is the partner in this deal. The parties involved want the Phase Two project aim to deliver substantial economic assistance for Mauritania and its population via additional taxes, duties, salaries and locally supplied goods and services.
Marie-Andree Truchi, Senior Business Development Manager at the firm, said: "Wartsila has worked with Kinross earlier and there is no better endorsement of customer satisfaction than to win a repeat order. This engineering, procurement and construction project indicates the broad scope of Wartsila's capabilities."