First floating wind farm in the world generates power in Scotland 
19102017

1354
RenewableThe world's first floating wind farm off the coast of Scotland began to deliver electricity to the grid.  
The 30MW Hywind wind farm comprises five giant turbines, installed around 25 kilometers from Peterhead in Aberdeenshire, and will power up 20,000 homes a year.

The advantage of floating turbines is the possibility to install them in waters that are too deep for traditional offshore wind farms. Developer Statoil is also trying to connect a 1MWh lithium battery storage solution to the floating wind farm with associated company Masdar.
 
Scottish First Minister Nicola Sturgeon will officially open the wind farm today. He affirmed that this event emphasizes the enormous development that was achieved in the green energy field in Scotland.

Sturgeon also revealed for the press: "Our support for floating offshore wind is testament to this government's commitment to the development of this technology and coupled with Statoil's Battery Storage Project, Batwind, puts us at the forefront of this global race and positions Scotland as a world center for energy innovation."
  
 The 30MW Hywind wind farm comprises five giant turbines, installed around 25 kilometers from Peterhead in Aberdeenshire, and will power up 20,000 homes a year.
The advantage of floating turbines is the possibility to install them in waters that are too deep for traditional offshore wind farms. Developer Statoil is also trying to connect a 1MWh lithium battery storage solution to the floating wind farm with associated company Masdar. Scottish First Minister Nicola Sturgeon will officially open the wind farm today. He affirmed that this event emphasizes the enormous development that was achieved in the green energy field in Scotland.
Sturgeon also revealed for the press: "Our support for floating offshore wind is testament to this government's commitment to the development of this technology and coupled with Statoil's Battery Storage Project, Batwind, puts us at the forefront of this global race and positions Scotland as a world center for energy innovation."  