Goldman Sachs just concluded its  North American Energy Summit this week, and I couldn't help but  wonder why the White House wasn't holding the event instead.  Goldman Sachs is one of Wall Street's "white shoe" firms, but it  ain't the White House!Tune in to CNBC's "Power Lunch" Friday, June 13 at 1pm ET. Ron Insana will be on to discuss this idea of "NOPEC" and why the Obama administration should be taking notes.  I have been suggesting for months in my public speaking  engagements that President Barack  Obama invite Canada's prime minister, Stephen Harper, and Mexico's president, Enrique Pena  Nieto, to Washington to hold talks on creating "NOPEC"—the  North American Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries.  The name alone implies what's at stake in the world's petroleum  wars. Read MoreECB proves the war on deflation is  raging  If combined, the resources of NAFTA partners, and subsequently,  NOPEC powers, could easily change the dynamics of world oil  markets, world financial markets and in the geopolitical sphere,  as well.  With the U.S. leading the way in the  fracking revolution,  and with a newly  liberalized energy sector in Mexico, North America could  easily rival and exceed OPEC's production of crude oil, natural  gas, distillates and other petrochemical products—making  North America the envy of the energy world.  It saddens me that in the absence of any cogent fiscal policy  efforts emerging in Washington, something as simple, and  beneficial, as the notion of NOPEC has not made its way to the  West Wing.  Canada, thanks to the relative glut of crude oil in the U.S., has  made it known that it's looking to sell its energy products into  new markets around the world. The United States, contemplating the easing  of restrictions on crude oil exports, which have been in place  since the Arab oil embargo, is poised to soon become not only a  net exporter of refined energy products, but  of crude, natural gas and residual fuels.  Mexico is inviting foreign firms into its own newly opened energy  sector, long controlled by the government alone, which could  significantly enhance energy output and make Mexico an even more  important player on the world economic stage.Read MoreIraq burns again: What has sparked the fire?  Combined, NOPEC could become the "swing producer" of energy  products in world markets, helping to drive down prices of energy  products that are currently hostage to OPEC's whims, geopolitical  risk and, on occasion, excessive speculation that whips oil  markets round and round.  In addition, a concerted effort by the Three Amigos could also  expand the opportunity for North America to become the world's  manufacturing hub, thanks to advantageous energy pricing,  increasingly competitive labor markets, property rights  protections, the rule of law and relative political stability.  That, in turn, could shake the ground underneath the feet of  China, India, Japan and Vietnam, where comparative advantage is  beginning to slip away.  In addition, NOPEC could counter-balance Russia, and other  countries of the former Soviet Union, by becoming a more  consistent supplier of energy products to our allies in Europe,  and elsewhere, while taking market share from hostile countries, which are unlikely to have North America's best interests at  heart.  It would behoove policymakers to take more proactive steps to  coordinate policies among NOPEC members in order to ensure that  North America regains its status as an OPEC-sized player in the  market.Read MoreOil spike eyed as Iraq violence escalates  Despite two oil shocks in the 1970s, two wars in the Middle East  and the re-emergence of old adversaries who can influence the  supply and price of energy, the U.S. has failed for 40 years to  adopt a cogent energy policy that reflects the growing power of  American know-how and the growing abundance of North American  resources.  Updating the continent's outdated and inefficient energy  infrastructure would be a good idea, as well.  But, for now, it seems like it's time to say, "yes," to NOPEC,  because it allows us—in many ways—to say "no" to  others. Commentary by Ron Insana, a CNBC and MSNBC contributor and  the author of four books on Wall Street. He also delivers a daily  podcast, "Insana Insights," and a long-form weekly version, both available on iTunes and at roninsana.com.  Follow him on Twitter @rinsana.