  Crude oil production at one largely forgotten member of OPEC is on the rise, but that's unlikely  to affect already plummeting oil prices.  For the first time in almost a decade, Nigerian crude oil  output surpassed 2 million barrels a day in  September, propelling OPEC's oil production to a one-year  high. Nigeria is one of only two Sub-Saharan OPEC states, and while it  doesn't shape the direction of oil prices like Saudi Arabia does, its production can affect pricing  on the fringes. But experts say that the recent surge will  be short lived.  Read MoreWhy OPEC's losing its ability to set  oil prices  That's because the issues that make output in Nigeria so volatile have not gone away, said Richard Mallinson, geopolitical analyst  at research firm Energy Aspects in London.   "You can have another reversal anytime, and this recovery will be  easily lost," Mallinson said. "But it hasn't been a straight line  decline. There are cycles of disruptions and brief recovery  periods," he said. The jump in output now is one of those  short-lived recoveries, he said.  Only a few months back, in May, production hit a low of 1.6  million barrels a day.  Read MoreOil price falls? Why you should relax:  OPEC head  Oil and gas make up only about 14 percent of Nigeria's gross  domestic product, but account for over 70 percent of government  revenue and 90 percent of export earnings, according to  the U.S. Department of State.  The Nigerian government hopes to increase production capacity  to 4 million barrels by 2020. But Nigeria's  production is unlikely to exceed 2 million barrels per day by the  end of the decade and will likely fall to an average around 1.8  million, according to Energy Aspects' October forecast.  Production gains in the Niger Delta—the country's main  artery for oil production—are hindered by industry-scale  theft, domestic insecurity and government inaction.  Pipeline vandalism increased 58 percent over the  previous year, according to the state-owned Nigerian National  Petroleum Corporation in its annual statistics bulletin. About $7  billion of oil revenue is lost every year due to oil theft, said  Dolapi Oni, head energy analyst at Ecobank, a pan-African banking  conglomerate. Read More OPEC cuts oil price  forecasts as 'price war' bites  Theft has plagued the Delta for years, but the government's  military resources are running thin due to religious-based violence in the north, caused by militant groups like Boko Haram,  Oni said.   The insecurity caused by oil thefts and regional violence has led  to divestments from the Delta, according to Wumi Iledare,  professor at Louisiana State University and president of  the International Association for Energy Economics, a  3,000 member strong non-profit of energy researchers.  Recently, foreign oil majors including ConocoPhillips, Royal Dutch  Shell, France's Total and Italy's Eni have disposed of some of their onshore  Nigerian oil assets.  Read MoreLook out below! Oil is not done  falling  Royal Dutch Shell made sale agreements for four onshore oil blocks as well as a pipeline.  And Chevron is  selling off three onshore oil blocks to smaller, local  operators.   Still, Nigeria "has clear growth potential, particularly in  deep-water and onshore gas," Shell said in a statement to CNBC.  Shell is not selling all of its Nigerian assets and will continue  to hold several onshore and shallow-water licenses. In an attempt to re-attract foreign investment and stabilize Nigeria's oil  industry, the country's National Assembly introduced the Petroleum  Industry Bill (PIB) in 2011. The bill would increase accountability and transparency for government-managed oil  operations. And a new legal framework and regulatory agencies are designed to increase the attractiveness of onshore assets to foreign  investors.  "International companies are being disenchanted with onshore  production in Nigeria ... the bill would really help rehabilitate  its image of onshore production and bring companies back,"  Mallinson said.The bill is far from a silver bullet, but it is a first step  toward reform in the industry, Iledare said. Read MoreTen stocks for the next 25 years"As it stands, the  bill gives too much power to the minister and president, which  defeats the primary objective of transparency. The government  needs to think more of national interest, instead of personal  interest, to drive policies," he said.   But with Nigeria's 2015 presidential elections around the corner,  the bill is unlikely to see progress in the next six months, which is a "huge, ongoing missed opportunity," Mallinson said.   If Nigeria's oil production did manage to stabilize and bounce  back for the long term, global oil prices could move even lower, Iledare said.  Internationally priced Brent  crude was trading above $83 on Friday following the release  of jobs data that showed  unemployment declining in the United States, which is the  world's biggest energy consumer.  "The relative improvement in production in recent months is  already contributing to the global oversupply," Mallinson said.  "Any pick up beyond levels now without resolving the core issues  hurting the Delta would cause more volatility in oil  prices."   However, said Iledare, significant production increases are unlikely to  happen in the short term.