France's Total to begin drilling offshore Lebanon next month 
16122019

0954
Natural GasLebanon's economic crisis has led to nationwide protests over the last two months. The country needs its exploration programme to work to reduce its energy import bill.French energy oil major Total will begin drilling for gas in the eastern Mediterranean waters offshore Lebanon as the country looks to kick-start oil hydrocarbons exploration.
 
The company, which is part of a consortium consisting of Italy's Eni and Russia's Novatek, will drill a well in Block 4, that was awarded in 2017.
 
The drilling process could take up to two months, with an additional two months required to evaluate the commercial viability of any potential gas discoveries, she added.
 
The Total-led consortium won two blocks offshore in Lebanon's first licensing round held under the government of now caretaker prime minister Saad Hariri.
 
Lebanon has one of the highest debt to gross domestic product ratios in the world, with public debt reaching $86 billion (Dh325.8bn), equivalent to 150 per cent of GDP. The country's worsening economic crisis fuelled nationwide protests the past two months. The country's debt crisis has worsened in recent years, exacerbated by political uncertainty, internal disagreements and the burden of hosting more than a million Syrian refugees, about a quarter of the population.
Source: thenational.ae
French energy oil major Total will begin drilling for gas in the eastern Mediterranean waters offshore Lebanon as the country looks to kick-start oil hydrocarbons exploration. The company, which is part of a consortium consisting of Italy's Eni and Russia's Novatek, will drill a well in Block 4, that was awarded in 2017. The drilling process could take up to two months, with an additional two months required to evaluate the commercial viability of any potential gas discoveries, she added. The Total-led consortium won two blocks offshore in Lebanon's first licensing round held under the government of now caretaker prime minister Saad Hariri. Lebanon has one of the highest debt to gross domestic product ratios in the world, with public debt reaching $86 billion (Dh325.8bn), equivalent to 150 per cent of GDP. The country's worsening economic crisis fuelled nationwide protests the past two months. The country's debt crisis has worsened in recent years, exacerbated by political uncertainty, internal disagreements and the burden of hosting more than a million Syrian refugees, about a quarter of the population.Source: thenational.ae