Gazprom, Uzbekneftegaz discuss Shakhpakhty gas field production 
12072018

0945
Natural GasRussian gas monopoly Gazprom and national holding company Uzbekneftegaz have discussed the bilateral cooperation between the companies, focusing on the joint development of the Shakhpakhty field in the former Soviet republic.Gazprom CEO Alexey Miller and Uzbekistan's deputy Prime Minister and Uzbekneftegaz Chairman Alisher Sultanov met in St Petersburg on July 6.
 
According to Gazprom, the meeting also touched upon the interactions related to the purchases of Uzbek gas by the Russian company.
 
Gazprom's main partner in Uzbekistan is Uzbekneftegaz, focused on oil and gas prospecting, production, processing, transportation, storage and marketing.
 
In 2017, Gazprom and Uzbekneftegaz signed the Agreement of Strategic Cooperation.
 
In May 2018, the companies inked the Supplementary Agreement No. 2 to the Production Sharing Agreement for the follow-up development of the Shakhpakhty field. According to the document, the parties will continue to produce gas until 2024.
 
Shakhpakhty is a gas and condensate field discovered in 1962 in the southeastern part of the Ustyurt plateau in Uzbekistan.
 
In 2017, Gazprom purchased 5.5 billion cubic metres of natural gas from Uzbekistan.
Source: neweurope.eu
Gazprom CEO Alexey Miller and Uzbekistan's deputy Prime Minister and Uzbekneftegaz Chairman Alisher Sultanov met in St Petersburg on July 6. According to Gazprom, the meeting also touched upon the interactions related to the purchases of Uzbek gas by the Russian company. Gazprom's main partner in Uzbekistan is Uzbekneftegaz, focused on oil and gas prospecting, production, processing, transportation, storage and marketing. In 2017, Gazprom and Uzbekneftegaz signed the Agreement of Strategic Cooperation. In May 2018, the companies inked the Supplementary Agreement No. 2 to the Production Sharing Agreement for the follow-up development of the Shakhpakhty field. According to the document, the parties will continue to produce gas until 2024. Shakhpakhty is a gas and condensate field discovered in 1962 in the southeastern part of the Ustyurt plateau in Uzbekistan. In 2017, Gazprom purchased 5.5 billion cubic metres of natural gas from Uzbekistan.Source: neweurope.eu