GE plans to build Poland's most efficient coal plant 
16072018

0909
CoalGE Power and Elektrownia Ostroleka signed a contract to build Ostroleka C, an ultra-supercritical (USC) coal-fired thermal power plant in the northeast of Poland, GE announced on Thursday.GE Power will design and build the power plant as well as manufacture and deliver the ultra-supercritical technology components, such as a boiler and a steam turbine generator, the company said.
 
These components are expected to create the highest efficiency level possible for a coal-fired thermal power plant in Poland with 46 percent efficiency, well above the global average of 33 percent, it noted.
 
"This represents a 26 percent reduction in CO2 emissions for each megawatt (MW) produced. GE Power will also supply air quality control systems that meet with the latest EU standards in terms of local emissions," GE added.
 
"Ostroleka C will deliver reliable, affordable power with the lowest possible carbon footprint. Through enhanced load flexibility, this plant will help stabilize the grid and support the growth of renewables," Andreas Lusch, CEO of GE's Steam Power, was quoted as saying.
 
The plant is planned to become operational in 2023.
Source: aa.com.tr
GE Power will design and build the power plant as well as manufacture and deliver the ultra-supercritical technology components, such as a boiler and a steam turbine generator, the company said. These components are expected to create the highest efficiency level possible for a coal-fired thermal power plant in Poland with 46 percent efficiency, well above the global average of 33 percent, it noted. "This represents a 26 percent reduction in CO2 emissions for each megawatt (MW) produced. GE Power will also supply air quality control systems that meet with the latest EU standards in terms of local emissions," GE added. "Ostroleka C will deliver reliable, affordable power with the lowest possible carbon footprint. Through enhanced load flexibility, this plant will help stabilize the grid and support the growth of renewables," Andreas Lusch, CEO of GE's Steam Power, was quoted as saying. The plant is planned to become operational in 2023.Source: aa.com.tr