Germany's First LNG Terminal Planned 
28122018

0942
LNGUniper SE and Mitsui O.S.K. Lines, Ltd. have reached an agreement on a project to install a Floating Storage and Regasification Unit (FSRU) at Uniper site in Wilhelmshaven, Germany.The FSRU, expected to be the nation's first, has a planned send-out capacity of 10 bcm/a and an LNG storage capacity of 263,000 cubic meters. It could be in operation as early as the second half of 2022.
 
The project benefits from the existing site in Wilhelmshaven where required infrastructure is already in place. Wilhelmshaven is the only German deepwater port and can be reached without any tidal constraints. In addition, Wilhelmshaven is closely located to the existing pipeline and gas storage infrastructure.
 
Mitsui O.S.K. Lines plans to own, operate and finance the FSRU. Uniper will act as project developer.
 
A LNG terminal in Germany, especially with the planed large regasification capacity in Wilhelmshaven, would strengthen the security of gas supply in Germany and increase competition to the benefit of end customers, says Uniper, because it enables large quantities of gas to be procured from the global LNG market and thus serves to diversify gas supplies.
Source: maritime-executive.com
The FSRU, expected to be the nation's first, has a planned send-out capacity of 10 bcm/a and an LNG storage capacity of 263,000 cubic meters. It could be in operation as early as the second half of 2022. The project benefits from the existing site in Wilhelmshaven where required infrastructure is already in place. Wilhelmshaven is the only German deepwater port and can be reached without any tidal constraints. In addition, Wilhelmshaven is closely located to the existing pipeline and gas storage infrastructure. Mitsui O.S.K. Lines plans to own, operate and finance the FSRU. Uniper will act as project developer. A LNG terminal in Germany, especially with the planed large regasification capacity in Wilhelmshaven, would strengthen the security of gas supply in Germany and increase competition to the benefit of end customers, says Uniper, because it enables large quantities of gas to be procured from the global LNG market and thus serves to diversify gas supplies.Source: maritime-executive.com