  Worldwide demand for oil will  grow by more than previously expected, according to the latest  estimates from the Organization of the  Petroleum Exporting Countries.  In a monthly report released Tuesday, OPEC raised its 2015 global  demand growth forecast to 1.18 million barrels per day  compared to last month's estimate of 1.17 million. All told,  worldwide daily demand will touch 92.50 million barrels this  year, the cartel's analysts said. Read More Here's why Iran and Iraq  should worry OPEC  OPEC has predicted accelerated demand growth in 2015 for several  months now, compared to the 960,000 barrels per day rise in 2014.  The group has said that about half of this year's expected increase will come from China and the Middle East.Still, the report said that oil demand expectations for OECD Americas  skewed to the upside compared to previous assessments in part  because of the dominance of SUVs and pickups in the region. OECD  Europe also saw demand increasing during the first part of the  year, OPEC said, citing economic improvements on the Continent.  Non-OPEC oil supply, meanwhile, is projected to grow by 680,000 barrels per day in 2015—a slight decline from  previously released expectations. The report said this year's  non-OPEC supply is now likely to average 57.16 million barrels  per day.  Citing secondary sources, the report said OPEC crude production  increased a slight 18,000 barrels per day in April—to about  30.84 million daily barrels. (Despite this figure, Tuesday's  report indicated this year's global demand for OPEC crude is  expected average only 29.3 million barrels per day.) Read MoreOPEC: No draft plan to bring back  production quotas  While OPEC slightly increased production, the report cited preliminary data  indicating April's total worldwide supply decreased by  390,000 barrels per day to average 94.1 million.  As a result of these supply shifts, OPEC said its share of global  crude oil production increased to 32.8 percent in April from 32.6  percent the prior month.  Earlier Tuesday OPEC publicly denied  a claim that it had drafted a plan containing a pessimistic  price scenario and recommending production quotas. Read MoreGet ready for another oil price dip:  Goldman West Texas Intermediate traded  higher Tuesday morning at more than $60, while Brent crude rose about 2 percent to  above $66.  Goldman Sachs predicted in a Tuesday note that oil will see a  decline as "the recent price rally is premature."