Global solar PV additions to rise to 110 GW in 2020 Platts Analytics 
21022020

0926
SolarGlobal solar photovoltaic capacity additions are set to rebound in 2020, but thereafter annual growth could stall, according to a report released by S&P Global Platts Analytics.The report forecasts global additions of 110 GW this year, an increase of 10% compared with 2019.
 
Analyzing some 60 GW of solar auctions in 2019, the report puts the weighted average of results around the mid-$40s/MWh, with "caution required" when considering record-low bids amid signs of "fierce competition among developers," especially for utility-scale projects.
 
China continues to dominate the market both in terms of domestic installations and manufacturing, the report said.
 
In 2019, installations plunged to 30 GW after a sharp cut in subsidies was announced in May 2018, but picked up towards the end of last year, with 14 GW of capacity added in the final quarter.
 
A rebound for solar in Europe is also expected despite a more conservative forecast for the region, it said.
 
Increasing tender activity, interest in power purchase agreements, together with lower module prices, "have enabled a new solar renaissance," according to the report, which adds that utility-scale investments look set to remain solid, although Platts Analytics says there are uncertainties over the growth in France and Italy.
Source: spglobal.com
The report forecasts global additions of 110 GW this year, an increase of 10% compared with 2019. Analyzing some 60 GW of solar auctions in 2019, the report puts the weighted average of results around the mid-$40s/MWh, with "caution required" when considering record-low bids amid signs of "fierce competition among developers," especially for utility-scale projects. China continues to dominate the market both in terms of domestic installations and manufacturing, the report said. In 2019, installations plunged to 30 GW after a sharp cut in subsidies was announced in May 2018, but picked up towards the end of last year, with 14 GW of capacity added in the final quarter. A rebound for solar in Europe is also expected despite a more conservative forecast for the region, it said. Increasing tender activity, interest in power purchase agreements, together with lower module prices, "have enabled a new solar renaissance," according to the report, which adds that utility-scale investments look set to remain solid, although Platts Analytics says there are uncertainties over the growth in France and Italy.Source: spglobal.com