Developed nations' total oil stockpiles fell in August for the  first time since March, according to the International Energy Agency, but analysts say a continued buildup of  refined fuels remains a barrier to reversing a two-year crude  glut.  The IEA reported Tuesday that overall  oil and product inventories in OECD countries fell by 10 million barrels,  driven by a 22 million barrel decline in crude stocks in the  United States, Japan and South Korea. But an 18.7-million barrel  increase in petroleum products offset the decline.  Those products included middle distillates like jet fuel and  heating kerosene, fuel oil and particularly U.S. propane. At 3.092 billion barrels, total  oil stockpiles in August were just below a record of 3.111 billion barrels  in July.  The rise in petroleum product stockpiles reinforced fears that  demand for the "feedstock" crude that's refined into petroleum products will eventually fall as the  world works through the fuels backlog, potentially dragging down oil prices anew.   "I think that really is the big worry here. Even though crude  stocks drew, we saw products increase, and we have such a strong  overhang of products," said Matt Smith, director of commodity  research at cargo-tracking firm ClipperData.  IEA identified an increase in refinery activity in many parts of  the world as a reason for the steep drop in crude inventories.  Crude oil is the raw material for refining fuels like gasoline.  Refiners' profit margins have been holding up, providing one of  the few respites in an energy industry battered by a two-year oil  price downturn, said John Kilduff, founding partner at Again  Capital. Notably, refining has increased in China, particularly  among the country's small "teapot" refineries.  But while the teapots are processing more crude oil, China is simply  putting gasoline and other refined fuels back on the global  market, particularly in Singapore, but also in Europe and, more  recently, the United States, Kilduff said.  "It looks like there's more demand out of China, but the problem  is the crude is basically making a round trip," he told  CNBC. "That kind of demand rings hollow to me."  While China's teapot refiners are much more active this year,  they are not driving exports, Smith said. Instead,  their refining is saturating the domestic market and causing  state-run companies to export more petroleum products.  "You're seeing more product exports from the likes of China, and  so really, the products side of the situation is still fairly  bearish," he said.  Overall, Kilduff said the EIA report is "very bearish" because  record OPEC output, persistently high stockpiles and "just OK" global demand overshadowed the good news on crude inventories.  "It's mildly supportive at best, but it's a drop in the bucket  though. That's the problem," he said.  Given the weak oil market fundamentals, speculation that OPEC  members will reach a deal internally and with non-OPEC members to  limit production is the only thing holding up crude prices, Kilduff said.