  Goldman Sachs said  Thursday it expects this week's oil rally to fade and reiterated  its call that crude prices will remain lower for longer.  "We continue to view the oil market as oversupplied and with low  prices required to achieve the sufficient rebalancing in 2016,"  Goldman analysts wrote. U.S. crude has  jumped 9 percent since Friday, when the U.S. Labor Department  reported the United States added far fewer jobs than expected in  September. The disappointing data increased investors'  expectations that the Federal Reserve would postpone its first interest rate hike in  nine years until 2016. Read More Jobs report  signals Fed on hold until 2016  Goldman said the surge was likely driven by positioning and  technicals rather than any change in fundamentals. The firm notes  that oil's rally has coincided with a bounce in assets exposed to  emerging markets, which typically experience outflows when rates  rise.  The MSCI Emerging  Markets Index is up more than 7 percent since Friday.  While the Fed's decision to leave rates near zero is a short-term  boon to emerging markets, it is ultimately bearish because it  suggests central bankers believe economic activity remains weak  in both the U.S. and the developing world, Goldman noted. That  raises the risk that oil demand remains skewed to the downside.  In a widely cited research note issued last month, Goldman said  crude prices could fall as low as $20 if a drop-off in production  takes place too gradually.  Saudi Arabia continues to rule out the prospect of reducing  OPEC output in  order to prop up prices, leaving the United States as the swing  producer. But U.S. production has remained stubbornly high as  American drillers have secured discounts from vendors, raised  capital on debt and equity markets, and turned to more economic  methods of plumbing for crude. Read More Crude  awakening: Beware oil's 'dead cat bounce'  On Friday, oilfield services firm Baker Hughes reported the biggest weekly  drop in its U.S. oil rig count. But Goldman said the current pace  of declines only implies U.S. production will fall by 250,000  barrels per day in the second half of 2015 and remain  sequentially flat in 2016.At the same time, crude inventory increases in the United States,  Europe, Singapore and Japan point to stockpile buildups above the  seasonal norm, the firm said.  Goldman further points out that rig counts are rising overseas  and that estimates for OPEC's September production put it at  August's highs.