  Gold prices rose more than 1 percent on Monday, recovering from their lowest levels  since February as the dollar and long-dated U.S. Treasury bond  yields retreated from recent highs.  Spot  gold had gained 0.82 percent to $1,192.36 an ounce by 2:30 p.m. EDT after climbing as high as $1,197.54 earlier in the  session.  The metal marked its lowest since Feb. 8 at $1,171.21 per ounce  in the previous session.  U.S. gold futures for December delivery settled at $1,190.80 per ounce.  Spot prices marked their lowest since Feb. 8 at $1,171.21 on  Friday, under pressure from a 14-year high in the dollar. The  metal has fallen 7 percent so far this month, as the dollar and  bond yields benefited from heightened expectations of enlarged  fiscal spending by U.S. President-elect Donald Trump.    As gold pays no interest, the rise in returns from U.S.  bonds and other markets is seen as negative for the metal  The dollar index, which measures the greenback against a  basket of currencies, was down 0.4 percent on Monday while the  yield on 10-year U.S. Treasuries retreated from a 16-month high  of 2.417 percent touched last week.    In other markets, crude prices were marginally lower on doubts  OPEC can nail down an agreement to limit supplies and Europe's  main stock markets also fell.    "If oil prices collapse or stay low then inflation  won't pick up as much and there would be less of an incentive to  raise U.S. rates rapidly and the dollar would not be as strong,  which would be supportive for gold," ING head of commodity  strategy Hamza Khan said.    "However, going forward, the equity market is going to be  a bigger driver than the rush to safety for gold."  Federal Reserve policymakers appeared confident on  the eve of the presidential election that the economy was  strengthening enough to warrant an interest rate hike, minutes  from the Fed's early November meeting showed.  Gold was riding on dollar weakness and the support for the yellow  metal sits around $1,180 an ounce, while resistance comes in at  $1,200, MKS PAMP Group trader Sam Laughlin said.  Traders also said supply concerns in China after a directive from  the People's Bank of China to limit gold imports, kept premiums  in Shanghai around $22, driven by buoyant demand.  Gold premiums in top consumer China jumped to the highest in  nearly three years last week on supply worries.  Demand from South East Asia is also quite good and buying at  lower prices could have driven prices higher, said Cameron  Alexander, an analyst with Thomson Reuters-owned metals  consultancy GFMS. SPDR  Gold Trust, the world's largest gold-backed exchange-traded  fund, said its holdings fell 0.73 percent to 885.04 tonnes on  Friday.  Spot gold is expected to bounce to resistance at $1,210 per  ounce as it has found support at $1,172, according to Reuters  technical analyst Wang Tao.  Among other precious metals, silver gained nearly 1 percent to $16.68 an ounce and palladium rose 1.2 percent to  $749.80. Platinum was up 1.5 percent at  $918.Follow CNBC International on Twitter and Facebook.