  The risk that oil could fall as low as $20 a barrel is rising,  with a persistent surplus requiring prices to remain lower for  longer to rebalance the market, Goldman Sachs said, cutting its  forecasts again.  "While we are increasingly convinced that the market needs to see  lower oil prices for longer to achieve a production cut, the  source of this production decline and its forcing mechanism is  growing more uncertain, raising the possibility that we may  ultimately clear at a sharply lower price with cash costs around  $20 a barrel Brent prices," Goldman said in a note Friday.   The sources of stress: an abundance of oil coupled with a  scarcity of storage space. The bank estimates the industry added  around 240 million barrels of petroleum to storage tanks from  January to August. It projects available identified storage  capacity outside China at around 375 million barrels and expects  an around 240 million barrel inventory build outside China  between September of this year and the end of 2016."If you don't bring U.S. or global production down low enough underneath demand to create that rebalancing then you're likely to slam into storage capacity constraints and that would put that downward pressure," said Jeffrey Currie, head of commodities research at Goldman, in a CNBC "Power Lunch" interview Friday.   But it noted $20 a barrel isn't its base case, even though risks  that oil will fall that low continue to rise, especially as the  bank expects only moderate production declines through the end of  the year. There is a less than 50 percent chance it would reach $20 a barrel, Currie noted. Cuts to production are not "significant enough," as low-cost output continues to surprise to the upside, Currie added. Risk that neither producers with strong balance sheets nor weak balance sheets would want to trim production "reinforces this idea of lower for longer," he noted.   Goldman cut its one-month, three-month, six-month and 12-month  WTI oil price forecasts to $38, $42, $40 and $45 a barrel, respectively. That's  down from $45, $49, $54 and $60 previously.   It cut its average price forecast for 2016 to $45 a barrel from  $57.    Brent for October delivery settled down 75 cents at $48.14 a barrel on  Friday, while U.S. crude fell to $44.63 a barrel, down $1.29. That  follows a wild ride for oil prices, with crude rallying from a  low of $37.75 touched Aug. 24, with daily swings of more than  5 percent in either direction.    "The oil market is even more oversupplied than we had expected," Goldman said. "We now forecast this surplus to persist in  2016 on further OPEC production growth, resilient non-OPEC supply  and slowing demand growth, with risks skewed to even weaker  demand given China's slowdown and its negative emerging market  feedback loop."—CNBC's Amanda Diaz contributed to this article. 