  Gold steadied on Monday, after a retreat in the dollar helped it build on last week's gains but  moves were muted with markets awaiting a U.S. presidential debate for pointers as to the outcome of November's election. The precious  metal rose more than 2 percent last week, its biggest weekly gain in  nearly two months, thanks chiefly to the U.S. Federal Reserve's cautious  tone on interest rates after its policy meeting on Wednesday. Spot  gold was at $1,337.40 an ounce by 2:57 p.m. EDT (1857 GMT), up 0.01  percent, while U.S. gold futures for December delivery settled up 0.2  percent at $1,344.70 per ounce. "The dollar is a bit weaker since this  morning, but also the oil price is much higher and this is contributing to  some uptrends in commodities in general," Commerzbank analyst Eugen  Weinberg said, when gold prices were firm.   Oil rallied on Monday as the world's largest producers gathered  in Algeria to discuss ways to support the market. Stock prices  around the world fell ahead of the first U.S. presidential debate  between Democrat Hillary Clinton and Republican Donald Trump. The  first face-off between Trump and Clinton will take place at 0100  GMT on Tuesday, with investors looking for clues about who will  win the race to lead the world's biggest economy.  The presidential debate is likely to be "very interesting" for  gold, Weinberg said.   "(More support) for Trump after the debate is likely to add to  support for gold." Rising support for Trump could increase  uncertainty, and therefore interest in gold as a haven from risk,  analysts said.   Looking to economic data, new U.S. single-family home sales  posted their biggest decline in nearly a year in August after  soaring to nine-year highs the month before, with analysts saying  the trend in sales remains positive.   "In the mosaic of economic data, you're in this zone of modest  improvement in the housing market. Not too hot, not too cold,"  said Rob Haworth, senior investment strategist for U.S. Bank  Wealth management in Seattle. "I think that's how the market is  interpreting this housing data."   Data late Friday showed that hedge funds and money managers cut  their net long position in COMEX gold for the second straight  week in the seven days to Sept. 20.  Weakness in risk appetite weighed on the more industrial precious  metals, with platinum down 1.3 percent at  $1,037.40 and palladium 1.2 percent lower at  $691.47. Silver was down 1.4 percent at  $19.38 an ounce.