Google nets 190MW in Finland 
18092018

0852
WindCPC Finland is to supply Google with electricity from a wind farm in Lakiakangas, as part of deals with three projects totalling 190MW in the Scandinavian country.CPC said construction of the wind farm started in July, with turbines scheduled for installation next summer.
 
CPC Finland managing director Erik Trast said: "The power purchase agreement signed with Google is a delightful sign of confidence, not only in CPC's quality and workmanship, but also in the entire Finnish market of renewable energy.
 
"By committing to renewable energy and sustainability, a giant company such as Google is a remarkable and powerful trendsetter to other industries as well."
 
Google also signed power purchase agreements with Neoen and WPD for electricity from two other wind farms in Finland.
 
Google senior lead, energy and infrastructure Marc Oman said: "These power purchase agreements, signed with three of Europe's leading renewable energy developers -- CPC, Neoen, and WPD -- will add new renewable capacity to the same grid where we draw power for our data center in Hamina.
 
"They're also our first renewable power purchases in Europe from projects that will not receive any government subsidy, demonstrating that, in a growing number of locations, the cost of new renewable energy is competitive with the cost of power from the grid.
 
"We've now signed 14 purchase agreements in Europe totalling nearly 900MW of wind and solar capacity."
Source: renews.biz
CPC said construction of the wind farm started in July, with turbines scheduled for installation next summer. CPC Finland managing director Erik Trast said: "The power purchase agreement signed with Google is a delightful sign of confidence, not only in CPC's quality and workmanship, but also in the entire Finnish market of renewable energy. "By committing to renewable energy and sustainability, a giant company such as Google is a remarkable and powerful trendsetter to other industries as well." Google also signed power purchase agreements with Neoen and WPD for electricity from two other wind farms in Finland. Google senior lead, energy and infrastructure Marc Oman said: "These power purchase agreements, signed with three of Europe's leading renewable energy developers -- CPC, Neoen, and WPD -- will add new renewable capacity to the same grid where we draw power for our data center in Hamina. "They're also our first renewable power purchases in Europe from projects that will not receive any government subsidy, demonstrating that, in a growing number of locations, the cost of new renewable energy is competitive with the cost of power from the grid. "We've now signed 14 purchase agreements in Europe totalling nearly 900MW of wind and solar capacity."Source: renews.biz