Greece Public Power Corp announced a profit decline hit by one-off charges 
28092017

1134
Electricity MarketThe first-half net profit of Greece's Public Power Corp (PPC) fell by 75% as one-off charges outweighed its sale of power grid operator ADMIE.The 51% state-owned PPC reported a net profit of 14.4. million Euros, or a decline from 57 million euros a year earlier. Sales registered a 6.8% drop to 2.5 billion euros.
 
As part of Greece' recent international bailout, the utility booked in June a 172-million-euro one-off gain from the spin-off of grid operator ADMIE.
 
However, that was compensated by factors counting a charge to cover a deficit related to green energy in Greece and promotional sales of electricity to peers, as a plan of Greece's efforts to open its power market.
 
PPC has been affected the last few years by provisions for debt owed by Greeks who strived to pay electricity bills during debt crisis. Tariff discounts offered to those who pay power bills on time hit the company's profits as well.
 
The retail market share of the utility represented 87 percent and Greece targets to limit it at less than 50 percent by the end of 2019 under a 2015 bailout agreement with its international lenders.
 
Furthermore, PPC announced that provisions for bad debt increased slower in the first half of 2017 compared to one year ago. According to CEO Manolis Panagiotakis, more radical measures were needed for debt management which led to the necessity of hiring a consultant on the matter.
The 51% state-owned PPC reported a net profit of 14.4. million Euros, or a decline from 57 million euros a year earlier. Sales registered a 6.8% drop to 2.5 billion euros. As part of Greece' recent international bailout, the utility booked in June a 172-million-euro one-off gain from the spin-off of grid operator ADMIE. However, that was compensated by factors counting a charge to cover a deficit related to green energy in Greece and promotional sales of electricity to peers, as a plan of Greece's efforts to open its power market. PPC has been affected the last few years by provisions for debt owed by Greeks who strived to pay electricity bills during debt crisis. Tariff discounts offered to those who pay power bills on time hit the company's profits as well. The retail market share of the utility represented 87 percent and Greece targets to limit it at less than 50 percent by the end of 2019 under a 2015 bailout agreement with its international lenders. Furthermore, PPC announced that provisions for bad debt increased slower in the first half of 2017 compared to one year ago. According to CEO Manolis Panagiotakis, more radical measures were needed for debt management which led to the necessity of hiring a consultant on the matter.