Greenlink interconnector secures EUR 3.6m in EU funds 
20022019

0934
RenewableThe project for the 500-MW Greenlink interconnector between Wales and Ireland will receive EUR 3.6 million (USD 4.1m) in grant funding from the European Union (EU), the project developer announced on Monday.The financing was approved in the second round of funding under the European Commission's 2018 Connecting Europe Facility. Commenting on the award, Simon Ludlam, project director for Greenlink, said that the EU support "reflects the importance of Greenlink as a priority energy infrastructure project for Europe."
 
The EUR-400-million privately-financed interconnector is being developed by Greenlink Interconnector Ltd, a subsidiary of Ireland's Element Power. According to the announcement, development on the project is progressing well and a search for the major construction contractors is now underway. Marine surveys were initiated last summer, followed by approval for the project by Ireland's Commission for Regulation of Utilities (CRU) in October 2018.
 
The 205-km (127-mile) high voltage direct current (HVDC) link is expected to enter construction in 2020 and to be completed in 2023.
Source: renewablesnow.com
The financing was approved in the second round of funding under the European Commission's 2018 Connecting Europe Facility. Commenting on the award, Simon Ludlam, project director for Greenlink, said that the EU support "reflects the importance of Greenlink as a priority energy infrastructure project for Europe." The EUR-400-million privately-financed interconnector is being developed by Greenlink Interconnector Ltd, a subsidiary of Ireland's Element Power. According to the announcement, development on the project is progressing well and a search for the major construction contractors is now underway. Marine surveys were initiated last summer, followed by approval for the project by Ireland's Commission for Regulation of Utilities (CRU) in October 2018. The 205-km (127-mile) high voltage direct current (HVDC) link is expected to enter construction in 2020 and to be completed in 2023.Source: renewablesnow.com