  Half of U.S. shale oil producers could go bankrupt before the  crude market reaches equilibrium, Fadel Gheit, said Monday.  The senior oil and gas analyst at Oppenheimer & Co. said  the "new normal oil price" could be 50 to 100 percent above  current levels. He ultimately sees crude prices stabilizing near  $60, but it could be more than two years before that happens.  By then it will be too late for many marginal U.S. drillers, who  must drill into and break up shale rock to release oil and  gas through a process called hydraulic fracturing. Fracking is  significantly more expensive than extracting oil from  conventional wells.  "Half of the current producers have no legitimate right to be in  a business where the price forecast even in a recovery is going  to be between, say, $50, $60. They need $70 oil to survive," he  told CNBC's "Power  Lunch."  At current oil prices, companies both large and small —  including ExxonMobil and Chevron — will have to think twice  about their dividend, Gheit added. Oil majors have so far resisted pressure to cut dividends.  U.S. crude fell to a fresh 12-year low below $31 on Monday,  while  declined to the lowest level since April 2004. On Monday,  Morgan Stanley joined Goldman Sachs in saying oil could fall as  low as $20 a barrel.  Such a drop would be brief because supply and demand are  beginning to come into balance, John LaForge, co-head of real  assets at Wells Fargo, told "Power Lunch" on Monday. Once oil  bottoms, it takes an average of two months for energy stocks to bottom, he said.But a number of producers would enter bankruptcy even with crude near $30 per barrel, he added, noting that roughly 25 percent of exploration and  production companies went bankrupt after the oil bust of  1986. The S&P 500 energy sector ended 2015 down 24 percent. Fourth-quarter earnings for the category are expected to decline nearly 70 percent year over year, according to S&P Capital IQ.  U.S. drillers are now spending more than they are making from  operations, a situation that Gheit said is unsustainable and will  eventually force prices higher.  "The oil industry needs a minimum amount of investment to keep  oil supply in line with demand," he said. "Even if the demand in  China is not as strong as we thought ... the current  investment right now would not be sufficient enough to bring  additional production to meet global demand."  Oil prices have fallen about 70 percent from their highs in the  summer of 2014. The rout accelerated after OPEC, led by top oil exporter Saudi  Arabia, declined to enforce production cuts among members of the cartel, a strategy that has  supported crude prices in the past.  Gheit said he believes the Saudis will not allow prices to  recover until they "take care" of U.S. shale producers, who have  contributed to global oversupply as American  production has more than doubled since 2008. The Saudis are also looking to settle the score with  Russia and Iran, both of whom are on opposite sides of regional  conflicts and are dependent on oil revenues, Gheit said.  