 U.S. President Donald Trump has promised to  boost the U.S. fossil fuel industry and create more jobs by opening more areas to drillers, but  there will be little real impact on the market in the short term,  an energy consultant said on Wednesday. "Opening up the environmentally sensitive areas that  Obama had closed could make a difference that could increase  conventional fuel production by 1 million barrels per day (bpd) or  more, but that would take five to seven years, so in the  short-term, there's no impact," said FGE founder and chairman,  Fereidun Fesharaki. The shale industry is likely to see just marginal benefits from any tax relief passed by the Trump administration, he added. Talk has swirled about a possible border tax of as much as 20% on imports including crude, which if passed could lead to aid domestic producers over supplies from abroad. As well, last week Trump signed executive orders  advancing both the controversial Keystone XL  Pipeline and the Dakota Access Pipeline, based on  approvals. Additionally, he signed orders expediting  environmental review and approval process for high-priority  infrastructure projects.  The president's moves have sparked hopes  and spurred expectations that a number of other oil and gas  projects that were languishing will be resurrected.  "There's all sorts of good, positive news  for the oil business but no real impact on oil production; certainly nothing  in next year or two," Fesharaki added to CNBC's Squawk  Box. His comments come as a Reuters survey  found high compliance by members of the Organization of the  Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) to curb oil output which is  set to fall by more than 1 million bpd this  month. The drop signals a strong start by the group in implementing its  first supply cut deal in eight years. Previous cuts in 2009 saw  an initial compliance rate of 60 percent. OPEC agreed to cut its output by about 1.2  million bpd from Jan. 1 for the first half of 2017 to boost oil prices. OPEC has also coordinated with other producers led by Russia for a total cut of nearly 1.8 million bpd. Supply from the 11 OPEC members with  production targets under the deal has averaged 30.01 million bpd,  according to the survey based on shipping data and information  from industry sources, down from 31.17 million bpd in December,  Reuters reported. Crude oil prices gained on the news of  strong OPEC compliance, closing higher on Tuesday. They are flat  in Asian hours on Wednesday with benchmark U.S. West Texas  Intermediate moving around $52.70 a barrel while international benchmark Brent crude was around $55.40 a barrel. With crude oil prices jumping some 20  percent since the commitment to cut output was announced, prices  have moved in the $50-$55 a barrel band—just enough to  spur U.S. shale production in the Permian Basin but not in other  higher cost regions, Fesharaki said, referring to a geologic formation in West Texas and New Mexico.  He estimates a 300,000-400,000 barrels a  day ramp-up in Permian production as oil prices move in that price range, a level the market can still easily  absorb now.  If prices push above $60 a barrel however, U.S.  oil production will increase by 1 million barrels a day, a  level the market will not be able to absorb it, he said. "Keeping it in this range of where it is  today is very important because it only allows one important part  of the U.S. production—Permian Basin—to come in. Bakken  and Eagle Ford are still high-cost to come in at this price  range," he added, referring to geologic areas in North Dakota and the Texas-Mexico border respectively.  Fesharaki forecast Brent oil prices at $54-$55 a barrel in  the first quarter of 2017 that will move toward $60 by the end of  the year when de facto OPEC leader Saudi Arabia is likely to  impose a $50-$60 a barrel price band.  Follow CNBC International on Twitter and Facebook.