  Tough sanctions on Iran that hammered its oil exports may have  helped the country cope with the commodities slump by forcing it  to diversify its economy.   Iran's economy shrank in 2012 and 2013 after the West tightened  sanctions because of its nuclear enrichment program. However, its  economy was growing again by 2014, despite oil output falling to  around 1 million barrels per day and crude prices  collapsing.   At a conference on Thursday, experts in the region attributed  Iran's growth partly to policy efforts that now mean its economy  is less dependent on crude exports than its Middle Eastern  peers.   "Many of Iran's neighbors are even more dependent on oil …  It is much more diversified than others in the region," Aasim  Husain, deputy director of Middle East and Central Asia at the  International Monetary Fund, said at a London conference on Iran  hosted by media company Euromoney.   Iran's economy is seen growing by a healthy 4 percent this year  by the World Bank, since the easing of Western sanctions in  January. The country has hiked crude production since then and  media reports on Wednesday, citing the Iranian oil minister,  suggested policymakers were aiming to reach four million barrels  per day by March 2017.   "I think ultimately Iran does not need to export crude or raw  materials — we should export petrochemicals or other  added-value materials," Amir Mehran, head of foreign assets and  investment management at Iran's Bank Pasargad, said on Thursday.  Husain said higher oil output would boost the economy for the  next 12-15 months, but that increasing production substantially  would require better infrastructure and access to finance.  "Iran needs to reconnect with the international financial world,"  he said.  Iran has attracted great interest from investors since sanctions  were lifted and has the second-largest economy in the region  after Saudi Arabia and the second-largest population after Egypt.  Its competitive advantages include cheap labor; a young,  highly-educated population and inexpensive and reliable energy  sources.   However, investors are largely sitting on the sidelines, nervous  on the mishmash of remaining sanctions and whether its  rapprochement with the West will hold.   One-quarter of senior U.K. executives listed the remaining U.S.  sanctions as their top concern about doing business in Iran, in a  survey published by law firm Clyde & Co on Wednesday.  One-third of the 100 executives surveyed in person said they would be uncomfortable even  talking to their banks about wishing to do business in the  country. Under half knew what level of "due diligence" would be  required and one-third said they could not get insurance cover to  do to their proposed business activities in Iran.   Iranian bankers, corporate leaders and politicians are busy  attempting to drum up investor interest at conferences such as  Thursday's in London.  "We aren't there yet — we don't have the corresponding  banking relationships that we want. The large international banks  are not accepting Iranian business — with some  exceptions," Mehran said on Thursday.   In the meantime, pushing inflation below 10 percent is a priority  for Iranian policymakers, as is reforming the banking sector.   They hope to develop the public debt markets and establish  asset managing companies to handle Iranian banks' high levels of  non-performing loans.  "How to secure long-term, stable growth in a highly uncertain  world — this is the most challenging issue. You cannot  tell what is going to happen, but you still must make plans,"  Vali Zarrabieh, co-founder of Iran's Saman Bank, said on  Thursday.  Follow CNBC International on Twitter and Facebook.