  Iran could support any effort to stabilize oil prices, including  cooperation between OPEC and non-OPEC oil producers, the nation's  oil minister said after a meeting Wednesday, according to  Reuters.   Oil Minister Bijan Zanganeh said while he supports a  production "ceiling" to stabilize oil prices, it's the first of  several steps that should be taken, according to Reuters reports  quoting the ministry's official Shana news  agency.  OPEC ministers had traveled to Iran to talk about a possible  production freeze between global oil producers. Oil prices  bounced slightly on the Iranian oil minister's comments,  with U.S. oil popping above $30 per barrel and Brent futures  nearing $34.   It was an unexpected move from Iran, which had already voiced  resistance to joining the deal before the talks in Tehran  began. Zanganeh did not explicitly say in his remarks quoted  by Shana that Iran would keep its own output at its January  level.  If an agreement is reached, it could become the first  joint OPEC and non-OPEC deal in 15  years, as oil producers seek to boost persistently low oil  prices.   Benchmark U.S. WTI light sweet crude was 4.51 percent higher at  $30.38 a barrel, while European Brent crude rose 5.28 percent to $33.88  a barrel.   On Tuesday, WTI settled 1.4 percent lower in the Asian session  after gaining as much as 7.1 percent intraday; Brent settled 3.6  percent lower after jumping 6.5 percent intraday on hopes of a  supply cut deal.The energy commodity has declined 70 percent  since the summer of 2014.   The price gyrated Tuesday on supply-cut hopes ahead of a meeting  of top exporters in Doha, Qatar. Those hopes were dashed  when Russia and Saudi Arabia agreed to freeze output at  January's levels instead. Qatar and Venezuela have already  agreed to participate but the deal was also contingent on  other producers joining in.  Iran, which was not present on  Tuesday's meeting, had planned to increase output by at least 500,000  barrels a day this year following the lifting of Western sanctions  last month. On Wednesday, Iran's OPEC envoy told Shargh newspaper  that it was "illogical" to ask Iran to freeze its  oil production level, Reuters reported.  "Asking Iran to freeze its oil production level is illogical ...  when Iran was under sanctions, some countries raised their output  and they caused the drop in oil prices ... how can they expect  Iran to cooperate now and pay the price?" Mehdi  Asali was quoted as saying.   This stance was reiterated again just before the meeting  Wednesday when an Iranian oil official said the country wanted to  keep boosting output, according to Dow Jones, which cited the Shana  news agency.  Market watchers received news of the deal on Tuesday with  skepticism because not only do Iran and Iraq need to agree to the  freeze, but even if the deal went ahead, it would be unlikely to  solve the problem of a supply glut.   Russia pumped a post-Soviet record high of 10.88 million barrels  a day in January, while Saudi Arabia's output was near its record  high around 10.2 million barrels a day, said Sebastien  Marlier, senior commodities editor at The Economist  Intelligence Unit.  Questions were also raised over whether Russia and indeed  Saudi-dominated OPEC itself would be disciplined enough to  respect the agreement.   "The success of the deal will depend on Russia playing its full  part," said Julian Jessop, Capital Economics' head of commodities  research.  "The track record here is not good — Moscow reportedly  reneged on a similar deal in 2001, although the stakes are  arguably higher now,"  Russia also failed to respect a similar agreement with OPEC  producers in the 1990s, said Marlier.  Meanwhile, OPEC was believed to already be pumping above its  previous 30 million barrel-a-day ceiling as producing countries  sought to pump up volume to offset losses from sliding prices.  The oil cartel was pumping 33.1 million barrels a day recently, according to London-based Capital Economics.  Dennis Gartman, founder and publisher of "The Gartman Letter,"  told CNBC's "Fast Money" that Tuesday's deal  — which he called "the last great hope for oil" — was a  huge disappointment.   "Anybody who even thought there would be talk of a production cut  had to understand, though, that the one thing [you] can know  about OPEC is they cheat. They cheat on everything. Even if  they had announced a production cut, nobody would have taken it  seriously but this was really a great disappointment," he said.  Most importantly, any meaningful recovery in oil prices in an  oversupplied market would undermine the Saudis' long-standing  strategy of not cutting supply to squeeze out higher-cost  producers such as U.S. shale companies. A resurgence in shale  output would then add to the existing over-supply problem.  "If the other producers do not agree, then little will change,  but even if they do, any significant price recovery could  increase the incentives for U.S. shale output to start growing  again," Barclays analysts Miswin Mahesh and Kevin Norrish said in  a note.