 Iraq is stuck between a rock and a hard place in its  effort to contribute to OPEC's planned production cuts in the first half  of 2017.  Those cuts — which are designed to help the world work through a glut of existing oil supplies and thereby reduce prices — were scheduled to take effect this week. But big  questions remain about how exactly Iraq will manage to hit its agreed-upon quota and cut out 210,000 barrels a day.  That includes how Iraq will handle its contractual commitments to  the international oil companies that operate its massive southern  oil fields, and whether the northern region of Iraq that's controlled by its Kurdish minority will go along with cuts.  Iraq is OPEC's second biggest producer, and it has promised some of  the largest cuts among cartel members and other big producers like Russia. The overall goal among parties to the agreement is to remove nearly 1.8 million barrels a day from  the market.  "Of the Middle East producers that agreed to the cuts, it's  probably the one that has the most [international oil  company]-operated production," Jessica Brewer, principal analyst  for Middle East and North Africa upstream oil and gas at energy  consultancy Wood Mackenzie. "There are a lot more parties  involved, which makes it more complex." Baghdad's contracts with foreign oil  drillers include provisions that require the government  to compensate them when production is curtailed for reasons  beyond the drillers' control, Reuters reported after viewing  contract excerpts in November.  Government-imposed production cuts could trigger those  provisions, according to Brewer. What type of compensation that  could entail can be negotiated, but it's possible the government  could have to pay back the oil companies for lost revenue, she  said.  That would be painful for Iraq. The country is already in  financial straits after more than two years of low oil  prices.   Currently, there are no clear signs Iraq has reached a deal to cut output  with international oil companies such as BP, Exxon Mobil and  Royal  Dutch Shell, Brewer said. Meanwhile, OPEC's compliance panel  meets to make its first assessment of output reductions on Jan.  21 and 22 in Vienna.  Iraq could dodge its problems it made the cuts from  state-operated fields in the country's north, but that option  provides no easy solution either, Brewer added.  That's because the semi-autonomous Kurdistan Regional Government  took control of the city of Kirkuk after central government  forces failed to defend it from Islamic State militants in 2014.  The Kurds now control some of the oil production in the region  and may not be willing to cut output, because their government is  also struggling financially.  Iraqi Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi complained the Kurds were  exporting more oil than they are  allowed, Reuters reported on Tuesday. Under the 2017 budget,  Kurds are permitted to export 250,000 barrels a day. The Kurds,  who can ship oil to Turkey via a pipeline from Iraqi Kurdistan,  oppose the export limits.  The central government and Kurdish leaders have long feuded over  the Kurds' oil exports, which Baghdad says violate the  constitution because only federal officials are authorized to  sell the country's crude.That said, a deal between Baghdad and the Kurds to cut northern output is  "definitely not out of the question. It's just not something you  would expect them to come to an agreement to overnight," she  said.