  Weak global economic growth momentum and a supply glut will cap  oil prices at around $60 for the rest of 2015 and into 2016,  analysts say.   "WTI oil futures will remain range bound at around $60 for the  rest of 2015 and will only start trending up towards $70 a barrel  heading into the end of 2016," Mizuho Research Institute senior  economist Jun Inoue told CNBC in a phone interview. "Global  economic growth looks soft, but there are no signs that oil  supplies will fall," he said.   After falling to six-year lows earlier this year, oil prices have  stabilized over the past two months. WTI futures have hovered in  a $50-$60 a barrel range since early April.   Ahead of Friday's Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries  (OPEC) meeting, ministers from oil-producing countries such as  Iraq, Venezuela and Angola, have been touting a higher target of  around $75—$80 range, Reuters reports.   But analysts don't see much scope for upside to those  levels.   "Oil prices appear to be settling in a range of $60 to $70 per  barrel," said Capital Economics in a note on Wednesday. "We think  that prices are more likely to fall than to rise over the  remainder of this year." Capital Economics is forecasting Brent  at $60 by the end of the year. Brent futures were trading at  $63.38 a barrel at mid-day Asia Thursday.   Position talk   Whatever oil ministers from producer countries may be saying in  Vienna, OPEC itself is unlikely to explicitly target a price,  although it is expected to maintain production quotas that are  helping to keep prices so low.   "OPEC must maintain the perception that the market is determining  the price level," Barclays' commodities research team said in a  Tuesday note.   As for those oil ministers mooting target prices, it may just be  position talk, analysts said.   "The oil producers have an eye on the market and target a higher  price, which are not necessarily a reflection of their production  costs," said Mizuho Research Institute's Inoue.   Higher prices may not be the priority for OPEC anyway.   By maintaining production levels, oil prices will remain below  the levels at which investments in U.S. shale production can be  recovered, analysts said. The break-even point for the earliest  share investments is estimated at around $60 a barrel and higher  for later projects, according to Mizuho's Inoue.   Still, OPEC will be careful to avoid giving the impression that  it is targeting U.S. shale producers.   "The Saudis are taking pains to stress that U.S. shale producers  are not the target, rather all expensive producers," Barclays  said.   Floors and ceilings   Going forward, U.S. shale production will cap oil prices for the  next two years, analysts said.   "Due to the sharp cuts in upstream spending and drilling, U.S.  supply has finally stopped growing, hitting a plateau in the last  three months, with declines expected soon. This has already  supported prices, and helped to set a floor," Societe Generale  commodities analyst Michael Winter said in a note on  Wednesday.   That may not last for long, however.   The backlog of drilled, but unfracked and uncompleted, wells is a  "major wildcard," according to Winter, who warns that  expectations of more supply coming to market will keep a cap on  oil process.   Societe Generale is forecasting WTI futures at $60 through to the  end of 2016. 