Israel aims to eliminate by 2030 the use of coal, gasoline and diesel 
01032018

1648
RenewableIsrael's energy minister declared that the country aims to phase out coal and eliminate gasoline and diesel fuel by 2030.Energy Minister Yuval Steinitz said that the country's manufacturing and transportation industries will be 100% fueled  by natural gas, power and alternative fuels within the next 12 years. Also, the official iterated that from 2030 onward, Israel will create alternatives and will no longer support the import of cars that run on gasoline and diesel fuel.

Steinitz is conscious that the move may disturb energy and fuel companies, but he emphasized that Israel's 2030 goal will be implemented nevertheless.

Israel obtains about 70 percent of its power from natural gas. The rest comes primarily from coal. That's a significant difference compared to five years ago when more than half of Israel's electricity was ensured by coal.

Steinitz said the government "abolished the strategy of diversification of fuels" to have natural gas as its only fuel source for electricity production.
 
He also revealed that it is a historic opportunity for Israel to become one of the first Western countries in which energy is generated with zero pollution and harm the environment.
Energy Minister Yuval Steinitz said that the country's manufacturing and transportation industries will be 100% fueled  by natural gas, power and alternative fuels within the next 12 years. Also, the official iterated that from 2030 onward, Israel will create alternatives and will no longer support the import of cars that run on gasoline and diesel fuel.
Steinitz is conscious that the move may disturb energy and fuel companies, but he emphasized that Israel's 2030 goal will be implemented nevertheless.
Israel obtains about 70 percent of its power from natural gas. The rest comes primarily from coal. That's a significant difference compared to five years ago when more than half of Israel's electricity was ensured by coal.
Steinitz said the government "abolished the strategy of diversification of fuels" to have natural gas as its only fuel source for electricity production. He also revealed that it is a historic opportunity for Israel to become one of the first Western countries in which energy is generated with zero pollution and harm the environment.