Israeli player signs partner for 350MW Italian PV drive 
30122019

0845
SolarIsraeli renewables developer Ellomay Capital has entered a framework agreement with an unnamed European company to pursue 350MW of Italian solar projects.Ellomay, through its Luxembourg subsidiary, aims to reach around 265MW of ready to build capacity over the next 41 months with the new partner.
 
The listed developer also has the option to purchase projects totalling 37MW that are under development in Italy, the majority of which is covered by grid connection agreements.
 
The unnamed counter-party will develop projects exclusively for Ellomay during the agreement.
 
Financial terms via a "monthly budget" were not disclosed. A unspecified "success fee" is also built into the agreement to be paid once a project reaches the ready to build status.
 
The framework is subject to both sides reaching final agreement within 20 days of execution.
 
He added that Ellomay's "deep knowledge and extensive experience in constructing and operation photovoltaic facilities in Italy and Spain enable it to cooperate with experienced and reputable developers".
Source: renews.biz
Ellomay, through its Luxembourg subsidiary, aims to reach around 265MW of ready to build capacity over the next 41 months with the new partner. The listed developer also has the option to purchase projects totalling 37MW that are under development in Italy, the majority of which is covered by grid connection agreements. The unnamed counter-party will develop projects exclusively for Ellomay during the agreement. Financial terms via a "monthly budget" were not disclosed. A unspecified "success fee" is also built into the agreement to be paid once a project reaches the ready to build status. The framework is subject to both sides reaching final agreement within 20 days of execution. He added that Ellomay's "deep knowledge and extensive experience in constructing and operation photovoltaic facilities in Italy and Spain enable it to cooperate with experienced and reputable developers".Source: renews.biz