Fed Chair Janet Yellen has the tough task  in the week ahead of speaking to markets that are looking for  more guidance than she may be able to provide.  Yellen's speech in Jackson Hole, Wyoming, on Friday has been  anticipated for weeks, and especially in the last several days  after Fed speakers suggested the Fed could raise rates as early  as September. The annual Fed symposium has sometimes been used by  Fed chairs to make important policy pronouncements.  "They're going to raise rates this year. I think the only open  question is whether September is on the table. The Fed funds  futures don't think it is. They ran out of excuses. Brexit didn't  stop the world from spinning, and the election shouldn't be a  factor," said Art Hogan, chief market strategist at Wunderlich  Securities. However, the dominant view on Wall Street is that if  the Fed hikes rates this year, it will be in December rather than  September.  Markets in the coming week will also focus on oil, which has  surged since OPEC said it would meet next month to discuss  possible action. West Texas Intermediate crude  futures have gained 24 percent in less than three weeks. WTI  ended the week at $48.52 per barrel.   Stocks were flattish in the past week, with the  barely  changed at 2,183, and the Dow off 0.1 percent at 18,552. The  S&P energy sector rose nearly 2 percent for the week and is  now up 15.5 percent for the year, making it the best performing  major sector.  "I think [stocks] will be very much like this week. We'll have  sell-offs that become muted and rallies that become muted,"  Hogan said. "What could change it is more jawboning around Saudi  Arabia and the September meeting and production cut rumors. That  played itself out this week. We have a 9 percent gain in energy  prices this week, almost all of it on that."  But the big action will be around Yellen, and the oil market  could also respond if her comments move the dollar. The dollar  has been sinking on low expectations for a rate hike. For the  week, the dollar index was down 1.3 percent and was  at 94.50 late Friday. Treasurys could also respond, with the Fed-sensitive two-year at 0.74 percent late Friday and the 10-year at  1.57 percent.  "I wish we had a Fed speak [volatility index]. I'm telling  you it just spiked through the roof. It's all over the map. I'm  confused about what they're trying to do," said James Paulsen,  chief investment strategist with Wells Capital Management. "We've  got people talking out of every side of their mouth. The Fed VIX  is at its highest ever."  Paulsen said the comments by two Fed officials in the past week  were particularly confusing. San Francisco Fed President John  Williams said in a letter that the Fed should consider raising  its inflation target to 3 percent and allow interest rates to be  lower for longer. New York Fed President William Dudley then said  in a television interview that the market was too complacent and  the Fed could raise rates as early as September. Then Williams  spoke again, suggesting the Fed could move soon to hike rates.  "The bigger story might be does the bond market break out as  opposed to stocks? I'm not so sure a more hawkish Fed is  necessarily bad for the financial markets," said Paulsen.  Economists say Williams' first comments were more for  consideration and about longer term policy changes that could be  discussed at Jackson Hole, but they did confuse some market  participants when first reported. The Fed's inflation  target is 2 percent, and its preferred measure of inflation, the  PCE deflator, has been running at about 1.6 percent.  "The markets didn't react to them almost at all. That tells me  the Fed has a credibility problem. When you have two strong  individuals speaking … and the markets say I don't believe  you, that's a big problem. Actions might have to be taken to  correct that. If we can't take them at their word, that's a  problem," said Jim Caron, fixed income portfolio manager at  Morgan Stanley Investment Management.  Caron said part of the credibility issue stems from central  bankers using extreme policy. Critics say there has been little positive effect to stimulate the economy. Negative  yields in Japan and Europe created a surge in buying in U.S.  Treasurys and now long-term yields are extremely low.  "I think the important thing that's going on right now, and this  is all conjecture, nothing's been official. What it seems like to  me is the monetary policy experiment of low and negative interest  rates is coming to an end. It doesn't mean they're going to hike  rates. It's just that they believe that persistently lowering and  lowering rates isn't the answer. It's got to be something else,"  Caron said. "They've got to change tact a little bit."  Caron said if the Fed were to raise the inflation target, it  could change expectations, causing long end yields to rise. Even the suggestion of a change in its thinking could  affect the market, he said.  "People bought a lot of bonds on the premise that rates are  negative and even more negative going forward," Caron said. "The  risk in the market right now is that we've been lulled into  longer positions in bonds and flatter curves."   Barclays' chief U.S. economist, Michael Gapen, is among a  minority on Wall Street who believe the Fed could raise rates in  September and he's looking to Yellen to give a strong  speech.   "I hope she steps up and gives an interesting speech. Don't give  me this blah-dity blah. The markets need to hear from her. She's  lost some credibility with investors. There are many market  participants that believe she will never see sufficient data to  make her move," he said.    Gapen said Yellen should sound a bit more hawkish and more  confident in the economy when she speaks, but he said she can't  give the nod to a September hike because of the pending August  jobs report, released the following Friday.Monday  Earnings: Nordson, Premier   Tuesday   Earnings: Bank of Montreal, Best Buy, Toll Brothers, J.M. Smucker,  Intuit, Trina Solar   10 a.m. New home sales  1 p.m. $26 billion 2-year note auction  Wednesday  Earnings: HP, Royal Bank of Canada, Guess, Express, WPP Group,  Heico, Williams-Sonoma, Workday  9 a.m. FHFA home prices  9:45 a.m. Manufacturing PMI  10 a.m. Existing home sales  1 p.m. $34 billion 5-year note auction  Thursday  Earnings: Toronto-Dominion Bank, Canadian Imperial Bank, Tiffany,  Movado, Burlington Stores,  Dollar General, Dollar Tree,  Michaels Cos, Autodesk, GameStop, Pure Storage, Splunk  8:30 a.m. Initial claims, durable goods  1 p.m. $28 billion 7-year note auction  Friday  Earnings: Big Lots  Fed Chair Janet Yellen speaks at Jackson Hole, Wyoming  8:30 a.m. Real GDP Q2 (second); international trade  9:45 a.m. Services PMI  10 a.m. Consumer sentiment