 Saudi Arabia will not change  its oil production policy in the short term despite the death of King Abdullah,  Again Capital partner John Kilduff and other experts told CNBC on Friday.  "Things go downhill from here for us with King Abdullah's death.  The next generation and others—while they  talk a good game and a lot of happy talk toward the U.S. and what  they want—what they really want is a very sustainable oil  price, a higher one than I think we would like and can benefit  from, and will work to do that," he said in a "Squawk Box" interview.His viewpoint was echoed in part by other experts, who warned that Yemen developments and leadership in the regime are likely to make the situation fluid in the coming months.Abdullah died Friday (Thursday EST) after effectively ruling the  country for two decades. His half-brother, Crown Prince Salman, assumed the throne.At the November OPEC meeting, Saudi Arabia refused to agree to production cuts. The move accelerated declines in crude prices,  which are down about 60 percent from highs in June. Read More Saudi oil policy 'just took  turn for the worse'  The Saudis want to "break the backs" of U.S. oil producers, and  possibly those in Iran and Russia, as well, Kilduff said. The decision  to keep oil production steady is largely seen as a  bid by Saudi Arabia to  protect its market share.   That shifts the responsibility to boost the price of oil through  output cuts to other countries, particularly the United  States, where oil production has increased about 50 percent between 2008 and 2013.  All eyes will be on what happens to those U.S. producers over  the next several months now that the United States has taken the  mantle of the world's swing producer from Saudi Arabia, IHS vice  chairman Dan Yergin told CNBC.Read More  Prince Alwaleed: Oil will never see $100 again  The new king faces not just plummeting crude prices—Saudi  Arabia is the world's largest oil exporter—but the potential  for war in Yemen, its southern neighbor. The U.S.-aligned  government in that country collapsed on Thursday as Shiite rebels  from the north occupied much of the capital city, Sanaa.  The development increases the sense of anxiety and tension in the  region and highlights the geopolitical risk there, Yergin said on  "Squawk Box."    "What's been remarkable about the oil price—a year ago you  had a lot of geopolitics in the price. Now there's no geopolitics  in the price, but I think some of that may come back," he said.  As for internal stability, Abdullah went to lengths to ensure a  smooth transition of power, but he made one unorthodox choice in  his deputy crown prince, who has now become first in the line of  succession, said Ian Bremmer, president of the Eurasia Group.  Crown Prince Muqrin is capable but lacks tribal support, Bremmer  said on "Squawk Box."  One thing to watch over the short to medium term is whether King  Salman decides to replace Muqrin and bring in more  loyalists.  Read More Why Saudi succession isn't  a big deal for oil  "That would be a fairly big deal, and he would be able to do  it without a lot of backlash," Bremmer said. "It  could lead to a more cohesive and probably more  reformist-oriented set of policies in Saudi Arabia."  Saudi Arabia can hold its share of the oil market at current  prices through the end of 2015 and into 2016, Bremmer said.  However, he thinks its leaders will budge on production cuts in  the coming months because the economy is so dependent on oil  revenues. Even if Saudi decisionmakers had been thinking about taking  some oil off the market in the near term, they must now wait as  the country focuses on mourning its deceased  leader.  "That's not going to get you more than a month, and beyond  that, I think that the Saudis are going to be one of a few pieces  that should be taking a little bit of oil off the markets from  the Middle East," Bremmer said. Read MoreOil jumps as Saudi king's death feeds  market uncertaintyFormer U.S. Ambassador to Saudi Arabia Chas Freeman said the Saudis can deal with the pain inflicted by its own policy for several years, noting that the country has hundreds of billions of dollars in foreign exchange reserves. The official figure from the World Bank is $737 billion as of 2013."I think the pain is real, but the determination to see this out, preserve and gain market share, squeeze out new sources of energy so that Saudi Arabia's patrimony is not dissipated, all of this is very real," he said in a "Squawk on the Street" interview.There is currently no indication of disagreement in the kingdom over the strategy of riding out low prices, he said. 