Kazakhstan to produce 80 bln cubic meters of gas by 2027 
30092019

0859
Natural GasGas output in Kazakhstan will reach 80 bln cubic meters by 2027, Prime Minister Askar Mamin said welcoming the participants of the KAZENERGY Forum, Kazinform reported.According to the PM, Kazakhstan produces 90 mln tonnes of oil per year, which makes the country one of the leading oil and gas producers in the region.
 
<<The production of energy resources became the major factor for further development of petrochemical, oil processing industries. The range of products fully covers our domestic demand. The market expands and we expect, that in 2019 we will produce 51 bln cubic meters of gas.>>
 
By 2027, the annual gas production will reach 80 bln cubic meters, said Mamin. In his words, Kazakhstan expects significant changes in oil and gas sector.
 
<<In 2018, production of polyethylene and polypropylene significantly increased in Kazakhstan. Consumption of traditional mineral fuel rises as well. We have enough reserves to cover the future demand. In order to ensure long-term output, we constantly revise and improve our policy on attraction of private investments. We inserted amendments to the legislation on subsoil use, on renewable energy sources and green energy. We hope to become a global leader in oil extraction,>> he concluded.
Source: neftegaz.ru
According to the PM, Kazakhstan produces 90 mln tonnes of oil per year, which makes the country one of the leading oil and gas producers in the region. <<The production of energy resources became the major factor for further development of petrochemical, oil processing industries. The range of products fully covers our domestic demand. The market expands and we expect, that in 2019 we will produce 51 bln cubic meters of gas.>> By 2027, the annual gas production will reach 80 bln cubic meters, said Mamin. In his words, Kazakhstan expects significant changes in oil and gas sector. <<In 2018, production of polyethylene and polypropylene significantly increased in Kazakhstan. Consumption of traditional mineral fuel rises as well. We have enough reserves to cover the future demand. In order to ensure long-term output, we constantly revise and improve our policy on attraction of private investments. We inserted amendments to the legislation on subsoil use, on renewable energy sources and green energy. We hope to become a global leader in oil extraction,>> he concluded.Source: neftegaz.ru