Crude oil prices  tumbled as much as 5 percent on Monday after the Doha "no deal,"  but staged a turnaround later in the session and traded higher on  Tuesday.   Analysts attributed the rebound to the start of an open-ended oil  workers' strike in Kuwait over the weekend that reportedly  involves around 7,000 employees. The government-owned Kuwait Oil  Company tweeted on April 17 that crude production had fallen to  around 1.1 million barrels per day (mb/d) as a result.   The country typically produces 2.86 mb/d, according to OPEC, of  which Kuwait is a member.    "The strike has had the effect of blunting some of the downward  momentum in crude oil resulting from the failure of major oil  exporters to reach an agreement on a production freeze in Doha  yesterday. But a quick resolution of the strike could result in  another selloff," Coline Schep and Greg Priddy, analysts at risk  consultancy Eurasia Group, said in a report on Monday.  and  WTI crude futures  traded higher at 7 a.m. ET on Tuesday by around 1.8 percent and  1.4 percent respectively. Both were above the psychologically  important $40 per barrel mark, which light crude fell below on  Sunday.     The oil workers are striking because the Kuwaiti government  plans to cut or freeze their wages and benefits in line with  pending public sector salary reforms, according to Eurasia.   The government is likely to compromise on most of the workers'  pay demands, due to pressure from trade unions, the consultancy  said.   In the meantime, Eurasia saw oil production partially recovering,  as non-striking staff is redistributed and inventories are drawn  open.   "In the lower-likelihood scenario that the strike drags on, the  state oil company would probably call in foreign staff to support  continued operations," Schep and Priddy said.   On Monday, Goldman Sachs warned that crude could sell off sharply  again if the Kuwait disruption proved smaller than  expected.   "Either way, we believe that the weekend headlines will further  support the already high level of price volatility," Goldman  analysts said in a report.  Follow CNBC International on Twitter and Facebook.