Lukoil aims to sell some foreign assets due to Crimea sanctions 
22092017

1159
Oil MarketLukoil is seeking to reduce its refinery complex in Italy and concentrate on internal production.   
As declared by CEO Vagit Alekperov, the company also considers selling its Swiss energy trading wing Litasco.
 
It is hard to estimate the amount Lukoil will obtain after selling Litasco, as most oil and commodity traders are not listed. 
 
Considering the book values of Litasco's competitors the prices vary from $2 billion and $6 billion. 
 
Lukoil VP Leonid Fedun stated that many companies expressed their interest towards the firm's foreign assets but the offers were not so generous to please the shareholders. 
 
According to the company's website, the processing capacity of the refining complex in Italy is 320,000-barrels per day having a storage capacity of 3,700 thousand cubic meters.
 
The main factor that makes Lukoil reduce its activities in Western Europe is the series of sanctions against Russia imposed by the European Union because of Crimea annexation. 
 
Lukoil has also in its possession refineries located in Romania, Bulgaria, and the Netherlands.
 
 As declared by CEO Vagit Alekperov, the company also considers selling its Swiss energy trading wing Litasco. It is hard to estimate the amount Lukoil will obtain after selling Litasco, as most oil and commodity traders are not listed.  Considering the book values of Litasco's competitors the prices vary from $2 billion and $6 billion.  Lukoil VP Leonid Fedun stated that many companies expressed their interest towards the firm's foreign assets but the offers were not so generous to please the shareholders.  According to the company's website, the processing capacity of the refining complex in Italy is 320,000-barrels per day having a storage capacity of 3,700 thousand cubic meters. The main factor that makes Lukoil reduce its activities in Western Europe is the series of sanctions against Russia imposed by the European Union because of Crimea annexation.  Lukoil has also in its possession refineries located in Romania, Bulgaria, and the Netherlands.
 