Major cities vow to make new buildings carbon neutral by 2030 
24082018

0847
RenewableLeaders of 19 cities have pledged to ensure all new buildings are carbon neutral by 2030.Representing around 130 million people, the mayor from cities including London, Copenhagen, New York City, San Jose, Sydney, Tokyo and Toronto, made the commitment as part of their plans to significantly cut greenhouse gas emissions.
 
They have also vowed to ensure all buildings, old and new, are carbon neutral by 2050.
 
The Net Zero Carbon Buildings Declaration was organised by the C40 group of cities, with the pledge also made by mayors in Johannesburg, Montreal, Newburyport, Portland, San Francisco, Santa Monica, Stockholm, Tshwane, Vancouver and Washington DC.
 
It states net zero buildings use energy ultra-efficiently and meet any remaining energy needs from renewable sources.
 
Buildings in urban areas are said to be one of the largest sources of greenhouse gas emissions and typically account for more than half of a total city's emissions on average - in London, Los Angeles and Paris, buildings account for more than 70% of their overall emissions.
 
The cities aim to establish a roadmap for their commitments and develop a suite of incentives and programmes while reporting annually on their progress towards meeting the targets.
Source: energylivenews.com
Representing around 130 million people, the mayor from cities including London, Copenhagen, New York City, San Jose, Sydney, Tokyo and Toronto, made the commitment as part of their plans to significantly cut greenhouse gas emissions. They have also vowed to ensure all buildings, old and new, are carbon neutral by 2050. The Net Zero Carbon Buildings Declaration was organised by the C40 group of cities, with the pledge also made by mayors in Johannesburg, Montreal, Newburyport, Portland, San Francisco, Santa Monica, Stockholm, Tshwane, Vancouver and Washington DC. It states net zero buildings use energy ultra-efficiently and meet any remaining energy needs from renewable sources. Buildings in urban areas are said to be one of the largest sources of greenhouse gas emissions and typically account for more than half of a total city's emissions on average - in London, Los Angeles and Paris, buildings account for more than 70% of their overall emissions. The cities aim to establish a roadmap for their commitments and develop a suite of incentives and programmes while reporting annually on their progress towards meeting the targets.Source: energylivenews.com