 Marathon Petroleum's CEO believes the OPEC  agreement to limit production could finally end a glut  of oil that has hit the price of crude.   "We believe by the end of the first half that the global supply  of crude can be in balance and might even be a little bit of a  supply deficit as we go into the second half of the year," Gary  Heminger told "Mad Money" host Jim Cramer on Wednesday.  Crude surged 9.3 percent after the Organization of the Petroleum  Exporting Countries agreed to limit oil production for the  first time in eight years. The production cut stipulated a  decrease in production by 1.2 million barrels a day, from the  current 33.6 million barrels produced.  "I believe it has a chance to stick as long as the technical  agreements that are going to be put together here over the next  couple weeks really come in to where they stated they would be  today," Heminger said about the OPEC agreement.  Shares of Marathon Petroleum spiked 2 percent on Wednesday, which  was unusual, as a spike in the price of crude can hurt refiners  in the short-term. Refining comes down to the difference between  the price of oil and the price of gasoline. Thus, higher oil  prices tighten the margin.  Last week, activist hedge fund Elliott Management took a 4  percent stake in Marathon. It proposed various steps to  unlock value, which it believes could send the stock soaring 60  to 80 percent. The stock spiked 9 percent in the same day as a  result.  Cramer suspected that the activist involvement and potential to  unlock further value could be one of the key reasons why Marathon Petroleum's stock did not fall on Wednesday while other  refiners struggled.  Moving forward, Heminger was also optimistic about what President-elect Donald Trump's administration could mean for the oil and gas industry. He has pledged to roll back regulations on U.S. energy production.  "I am very confident that the president-elect is very  intelligent, he is surrounding himself with very intelligent  people that understand the economics of the oil and gas  industry," he said.  Questions for Cramer?  Call Cramer: 1-800-743-CNBC  Want to take a deep dive into Cramer's world? Hit him up! Mad  Money Twitter -  Jim Cramer  Twitter - Facebook - Instagram - Vine  Questions, comments, suggestions for the "Mad Money" website?  madcap@cnbc.com