MHI Vestas turbines to power Scotland's 1.1-GW Seagreen offshore wind park 
18102019

0936
WindMHI Vestas Offshore Wind has been picked as the preferred turbine supplier for SSE Renewables' 1.1-GW Seagreen wind project in the Scottish part of the North Sea.The company, which is a joint venture between Denmark's Vestas Wind Systems A/S and Japan's Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, announced the agreement with Seagreen Wind Energy Ltd on Thursday. Under its terms, MHI Vestas will be in charge of delivering and servicing up to 114 turbines for what is set to become Scotland's largest offshore wind park. The particular model and nameplate capacity of the turbines were not announced.
 
SSE Renewables, a unit of UK utility SSE Plc, in 2018 bought the 50% it did not own in Seagreen Wind Energy from its joint venture partner Fluor Ltd. Last month, the company was successful in securing a contract for difference (CfD) for 454 MW of the Seagreen project.
 
With a planned capacity of 1,075 MW, the Seagreen offshore wind park will be installed off the coast of Fife, in the Firth of Forth. When fully completed, the complex is expected to generate about 5,000 GWh of clean power, or enough to supply around one million homes per year.
Source: renewablesnow.com
The company, which is a joint venture between Denmark's Vestas Wind Systems A/S and Japan's Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, announced the agreement with Seagreen Wind Energy Ltd on Thursday. Under its terms, MHI Vestas will be in charge of delivering and servicing up to 114 turbines for what is set to become Scotland's largest offshore wind park. The particular model and nameplate capacity of the turbines were not announced. SSE Renewables, a unit of UK utility SSE Plc, in 2018 bought the 50% it did not own in Seagreen Wind Energy from its joint venture partner Fluor Ltd. Last month, the company was successful in securing a contract for difference (CfD) for 454 MW of the Seagreen project. With a planned capacity of 1,075 MW, the Seagreen offshore wind park will be installed off the coast of Fife, in the Firth of Forth. When fully completed, the complex is expected to generate about 5,000 GWh of clean power, or enough to supply around one million homes per year.Source: renewablesnow.com