  Asian markets mostly retreated on Monday, with traders likely holding  their horses ahead of a speech from Federal Reserve chair Janet  Yellen at Jackson Hole on Friday.   In Australia, the ASX  200 closed down 11.58 points, or 0.21 percent, at  5,515.10, erasing modest gains from the morning session, with the  energy and materials sectors shedding more than 1 percent  each.   South Korea's benchmark index, the Kospi, slipped 14.08 points, or 0.68  percent, to 2,042.16. In Hong Kong, the  fell 0.43  percent in afternoon trade. Chinese mainland markets were also  lower, with the  composite closing down 23.34 points, or 0.75 percent, at 3,084.76 and the Shenzhen composite  dropping 26.03 points, or 1.27 percent, to 2,018.65.   Markets in Japan bucked the regional downward trend to finish up, likely boosted by a weaker yen and anticipation of further  monetary policy actions from the Bank of Japan. The  added 52.37 points, or 0.32 percent, to 16,598.19, while the Topix index was up 8.01 points, or 0.62 percent, at 1,303.68. The Japanese yen traded relatively  weaker against the greenback at 100.76 as of 2:45 p.m. HK/SIN,  compared with the 99 handle it reached last week.   Stateside, Yellen was due to give a speech on August 26 at the  Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City's Monetary Policy Symposium  at Jackson Hole, Wyoming. The annual Fed symposium has sometimes  been used by Fed chairs to make important policy pronouncements.  Analysts expected market sentiment this week would hinge on  expectations for Yellen's speech at Jackson Hole.   "The dollar index already seemed to be looking ahead for some  slightly more upbeat language on the U.S. economy coming out this  week," said Angus Nicholson, a market analyst at spreadbettor  IG.   "Jackson Hole is a setting that is not designed for short-term  market moves ... much bigger questions will be debated about the  efficacy of the inflation targeting regime," he added.   Rabobank's head of financial markets research for Asia Pacific,  Michael Every, noted that the market has so far priced in only a  50 percent chance of the Fed raising rates this year.  "If we do get further certainty on that front [at Jackson Hole],  even if it means it's not going to happen until December, it  could mean we get a bit of a pick up in the dollar this week," he  told CNBC on Monday.Over the weekend, Fed vice chairman Stanley Fischer gave a mostly upbeat assessment of the U.S. economy in prepared remarks for a conference in Colorado, according to Reuters. Fischer said the Fed was close to hitting its targets for full employment and 2 percent inflation, which could be seen as further signs of an imminent rate hike.   In the currency market, the dollar traded up against a basket of  currencies, with the dollar index at 94.905 on Monday afternoon Asia time,  compared with levels near 94.100 late last week.   The Australian  dollar slipped against the greenback, trading at $0.7590 as  of 2:49 p.m. HK/SIN, with some commentators suggesting the Aussie  took a hit after Moody's Investor Service cut its outlook on the  country's domestic banks to negative from stable last week.   Stephen Innes, a senior foreign exchange trader at OANDA, said in  a Monday note that currency reactions to rating downgrades tended  to be short-lived. But Innes added that the  "higgledy–piggledy price action of the past few sessions  would indicate that traders are at 'minimum' and are starting to  re-think the low volatility carry strategy that is underpinning  the Australian dollar."  The currency retreated from highs over $0.77 touched last week in  the wake of stronger jobs report, suggesting that Aussie-dollar  bears were "gradually awakening from hibernation and may believe  the Aussie is topping," said Innes.   Major Australian banking stocks closed lower, with Westpac shares down 0.17  percent and Commonwealth Bank of Australia shares off 0.45  percent.   Elsewhere, reports out of Japan over the weekend suggested that  the Bank of Japan (BOJ) might cut rates further into negative  territory at its next meeting in September in a bid to prop up  the country's moribund economy.   In an interview with Sankei newspaper,  Governor Haruhiko Kuroda said the BOJ's negative rate policy, introduced earlier  this year, has not reached its limits, according to a Reuters  report of the interview.  Japanese exporters were mixed despite a relatively weaker yen.  While Toyota  advanced 1.23 percent, Honda gained 1.23 percent and Sony was up 1.41 percent, shares of  Mitsubishi Motors  were down 0.63 percent and Canon shares fell 0.79 percent.   In company news, China's biggest home builder, China Vanke, said on  Sunday its net profit rose 10 percent in the six months to the  end of June, reported Reuters. Vanke has been embroiled in a  high-profile battle for control of the company.   Investors appeared to cheer the uptick in profit numbers, as  Shenzhen-listed Vanke shares were up 0.45 percent, while the Hong  Kong-listed shares added 0.99 percent.   Oil prices fell on Monday morning during Asian  hours. U.S.  crude futures were down 1.83 percent at $47.63 a barrel on  Monday early morning, while global benchmark Brent was off 1.95 percent at $49.89.   Oil prices surged over the past  two weeks due to talk of a potential OPEC supply freeze, especially  after the cartel's biggest producer, Saudi Arabia, last week said  it was on board with discussing actions if prices remained low.     But analysts pointed out the market has little expectation that  OPEC would act at its upcoming meeting in September.   — Patti Domm contributed to this report. — Follow CNBC International on Twitter and Facebook.