Myanmar encourages the construction of LNG power plants 
05022018

1451
LNGMyanmar's government has given the green light to French energy giant Total and other companies to build proposed power plants as the country lacks electricity.Since the once-isolated country welcomed international companies in 2011, the economy grew at a fast pace and demand for electricity has been rising rapidly.
 
According to the Ministry of Electricity and Energy, the nation currently produces only around 3,000 megawatts, and will need at least 6,000 megawatts of energy to operate efficiently by 2020-2021.
 
The state authorities issued notices to foreign and local enterprises to start the construction of three power plants -- three LNG-power plants and one gas-power plant -- which could produce 3,111 megawatts in 48 months.
 
A combined-cycle power plant built in the coastal region of Ayeyarwady was proposed by a Chinese firm Zhefu and a Myanmar company, the Supreme Group of Companies. According to the statement from the ministry, it is expected to produce 1,390 megawatts. 
 
Construction of LNG-power plant proposed by Total and SIEMENS A.G's in Myanmar's southern coast region of Tanintharyi is expected to be finished in 48 months. According to the ministry, the plant is likely to generate up to 1,230 megawatts.
 
Two other LNG facilities will be constructed in Kyaukphyu Township of the western Rakhine state and in Ahlone in the region of Yangon.
Since the once-isolated country welcomed international companies in 2011, the economy grew at a fast pace and demand for electricity has been rising rapidly. According to the Ministry of Electricity and Energy, the nation currently produces only around 3,000 megawatts, and will need at least 6,000 megawatts of energy to operate efficiently by 2020-2021. The state authorities issued notices to foreign and local enterprises to start the construction of three power plants -- three LNG-power plants and one gas-power plant -- which could produce 3,111 megawatts in 48 months. A combined-cycle power plant built in the coastal region of Ayeyarwady was proposed by a Chinese firm Zhefu and a Myanmar company, the Supreme Group of Companies. According to the statement from the ministry, it is expected to produce 1,390 megawatts.  Construction of LNG-power plant proposed by Total and SIEMENS A.G's in Myanmar's southern coast region of Tanintharyi is expected to be finished in 48 months. According to the ministry, the plant is likely to generate up to 1,230 megawatts. Two other LNG facilities will be constructed in Kyaukphyu Township of the western Rakhine state and in Ahlone in the region of Yangon.