National Grid to acquire renewable energy developer Geronimo Energy 
08032019

0911
EnergyUK's electricity and gas utility National Grid has signed an agreement to acquire Minneapolis, Minnesota-based renewable energy developer Geronimo Energy, for $100m.National Grid said that transaction will include a potential for further payments depending on the successful development of the project pipeline. The acquisition will be led by National Grid's business unit, National Grid Ventures.
 
Established in 2004, Geronimo Energy has developed a portfolio of more than 2.2GW in wind and solar energy projects that include both operational and under construction projects. The portfolio represents more than 10% of all the wind generated in the mid-west US.
 
National Grid Ventures president Badar Khan said: "National Grid is committed to the evolution and decarbonization of our energy system. Renewable power, such as wind and solar generation is a core component of the future energy system.
 
"Strong, ongoing growth in renewable energy is fueled by robust demand and underpinned by significant reductions in the cost of renewable technologies, often making wind and solar generation among the cheapest forms of energy for consumers."
Source: compelo.com
National Grid said that transaction will include a potential for further payments depending on the successful development of the project pipeline. The acquisition will be led by National Grid's business unit, National Grid Ventures. Established in 2004, Geronimo Energy has developed a portfolio of more than 2.2GW in wind and solar energy projects that include both operational and under construction projects. The portfolio represents more than 10% of all the wind generated in the mid-west US. National Grid Ventures president Badar Khan said: "National Grid is committed to the evolution and decarbonization of our energy system. Renewable power, such as wind and solar generation is a core component of the future energy system. "Strong, ongoing growth in renewable energy is fueled by robust demand and underpinned by significant reductions in the cost of renewable technologies, often making wind and solar generation among the cheapest forms of energy for consumers."Source: compelo.com