Natural gas inventories surpass five-year average for the first time in two years 
18102019

1538
Natural GasWorking natural gas inventories in the Lower 48 states totaled 3,519 billion cubic feet (Bcf) for the week ending October 11, 2019, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration's (EIA) Weekly Natural Gas Storage Report (WNGSR). This is the first week that Lower 48 states' working gas inventories have exceeded the previous five-year average since September 22, 2017. Weekly injections in three of the past four weeks each surpassed 100 Bcf, or about 27% more than typical injections for that time of year.Working natural gas capacity at underground storage facilities helps market participants balance the supply and consumption of natural gas. Inventories in each of the five regions are based on varying commercial, risk management, and reliability goals.
 
When determining whether natural gas inventories are relatively high or low, EIA uses the average inventories for that same week in each of the previous five years. Relatively low inventories heading into winter months can put upward pressure on natural gas prices. Conversely, relatively high inventories can put downward pressure on natural gas prices.
 
This week's inventory level ends a 106-week streak of lower-than-normal natural gas inventories. Natural gas inventories in the Lower 48 states entered the winter of 2017-18 lower than the previous average. Episodes of relatively cold temperatures in the winter of 2017-18--including a bomb cyclone--resulted in record withdrawals from storage, increasing the deficit to the five-year average.
Source: eia.gov
Working natural gas capacity at underground storage facilities helps market participants balance the supply and consumption of natural gas. Inventories in each of the five regions are based on varying commercial, risk management, and reliability goals. When determining whether natural gas inventories are relatively high or low, EIA uses the average inventories for that same week in each of the previous five years. Relatively low inventories heading into winter months can put upward pressure on natural gas prices. Conversely, relatively high inventories can put downward pressure on natural gas prices. This week's inventory level ends a 106-week streak of lower-than-normal natural gas inventories. Natural gas inventories in the Lower 48 states entered the winter of 2017-18 lower than the previous average. Episodes of relatively cold temperatures in the winter of 2017-18--including a bomb cyclone--resulted in record withdrawals from storage, increasing the deficit to the five-year average.Source: eia.gov