For OPEC watchers, every  little detail matters. When the oil producer group holds its half-yearly  meetings, what time the ministers arrive in Vienna, how they speak and which hotel they  stay in - anything will be analysed in an attempt to predict its  policies. So it was seen as a sign that new Saudi Energy  Minister Khalid al-Falih takes OPEC seriously when he turned up in the Austrian capital on  Monday, three days before the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting  Countries' upcoming discussions.  But Falih will have little opportunity to see  fellow ministers ahead of Thursday's meeting. Many of them, including those from Iran and  Venezuela, won't show up in Vienna until midday or even late on Wednesday. For veteran OPEC watcher Gary Ross, founder of New  York-based consultancy PIRA, that signals expectations should be low as far as OPEC  policy is concerned. "These guys are not exactly getting along these  days," Ross said. "OPEC is becoming far less important. We are entering an era when market  management will be non-existent".   One exception to the later arrivals was UAE Oil Minister Suhail  bin Mohammed al-Mazroui, who told journalists in Vienna on  Tuesday that he was happy with the oil market, suggesting OPEC  should refrain from action at this week's meeting.   "We need to wait. The market will fix itself to a price that is  fair to the consumers and the producers," Mazroui said.   "This year is a year of correction. The rules of the market, that  is supply and demand, are working and I think that is the essence  of this policy."   OPEC last decided to change output in December 2008, when it cut  supply amid slowing demand due to a global financial crisis. By  contrast, between 1998 and 2008, OPEC made 27 changes to output.  For decades, Saudi Arabia, Vienna-based OPEC's  largest producer and de facto leader, had a preferred range for  oil prices and, if unhappy, would try to orchestrate a group-wide  production cut or increase.   But a technology-driven spike in non-OPEC output such as that of  U.S. shale and growing fuel efficiency led Riyadh to conclude  that the era of fast oil growth might be ending.  In the past two years, Riyadh has stuck to a strategy of fighting  for market share, thinking that pumping more oil now at low  prices is better than producing less in the future.   "We think continuity will carry the day at the June OPEC meeting  in Vienna. The only real uncertainty is how divisive the meeting  will be and how much discord will be put on public display," said  Helima Croft, head of commodity strategy at RBC Capital  Markets.   Unlike his predecessor, Saudi oil minister Ali al-Naimi, Falih  has a much larger portfolio overseeing energy, industry, mining,  atomic power and renewables.  On Tuesday, Falih visited OPEC headquarters to meet  Secretary-General Abdullah al-Badri, staying for 90 minutes in a  clear display that despite being a busy man, he has time for the  producer group.   "There are times when you need OPEC and when you don't. You only  need OPEC when you have major oversupply and OPEC doesn't want  prices to crash any further," Ross said.   Oil prices have recovered to around $50 per barrel in recent  weeks from their lowest in a decade of $27 per barrel in January  - but are still far below the $115 seen in June 2014.   Prices crashed after Saudi Arabia increased production to an  all-time high to fight for market share with higher-cost  producers, including U.S. shale firms.   The drop in prices also badly hurt fellow OPEC members, with  production declining from Nigeria to Venezuela.  Iraq and Iran, however, kept pushing production higher as Baghdad  sees recent investments by oil majors pay off and Tehran regains  market share after the lifting of some Western sanctions in  January.   Falih's ultimate boss, Saudi Deputy Crown Price Mohammad bin  Salman, has said Saudi Arabia may raise production further if  other members don't restrain their output increases.   "As long as Mohammed bin Salman is in charge, I don't think  anything reasonable (OPEC action) can happen. This policy has  hurt not only the exporting countries, but companies and the  industry," a non-Gulf delegate said.  Follow CNBC International on Twitter and Facebook.