  As   amid plentiful supply and faltering demand, crude exporters from  OPEC—and most importantly,  Saudi Arabia—have little room  to maneuver and may put up with lower oil prices for now.  The  from the International Energy  Agency (IEA), published on Tuesday, showed that rather than cut  production, Saudi Arabia increased its oil output by 50,000  barrels per day (bpd) in September to 9.73 million.   "Riyadh appeared determined to defend its market share in the  increasingly competitive Asian market—cutting its formula  prices for a fourth consecutive month," the report speculated.But for now, Saudi Arabia has indicated it may be willing to  accept a period of lower prices. Not that everyone in the country is happy about that. Saudi billionaire investor  Prince Alwaleed Bin Talal on his website this week lamented the Kingdom's  complacency in an open letter to the country's powerful oil  minister, Ali Al-Naimi. He condemned "statements designed to  minimize or underestimate the negative effects" of a slide in oil  prices, pointing to the precarious over-dependence of the state  budget on petrodollars. Read MoreDespite washout, hedge funds holding onto energy  Apart from anemic growth in the global economy, other powerful  shifts within the industry are giving the Kingdom incentives to  tolerate lower prices—especially the threat posed by the  burgeoning U.S. shale oil business.   "Saudi Arabia is attempting to develop a long-term outlook in  response to this new reality of plenty," Jonathan Pierce,  assistant professor at the Institute of Public Service at Seattle  University argued. "They are following the trend in production,  and recognizing that due to hydraulic fracturing (fracking) along  with directional drilling, oil is no longer monopolized by OPEC."  Lower crude prices are tougher for shale oil producers to handle  than they are for the Saudis, because of the higher costs  associated with shale. The Saudis have enough money on hand to be  able to navigate a period of low prices, if that's what it takes  to keep ambitious competition in check.   "Saudi Arabia has generated cumulative budget and current account  surpluses of $600 billion and $1 trillion, allowing it to build  up (foreign exchange) reserves equivalent to some 90 percent of  GDP (three full years of public spending) and pay down debt from  100 percent of GDP to less than 5 percent of GDP," HSBC Global  Research said.   Meanwhile, Iran's deputy oil minister, Rokneddin Javad, was  quoted by state news agency Shana as saying the drop in prices  would be "short-lived" and would not affect his nation's  budget. Read MoreEverything's falling, but hey, it's not all bad  OPEC members are due to convene on Nov. 27 in Vienna to formulate  policies for 2015—and possibly demonstrate to the world how  they plan to remain a potent force in today's oil market.  "The ability of OPEC to impose joint production cuts historically  has depended on the global business cycle," Lutz Kilian,  professor of economics at the University of Michigan, explained  to CNBC.   Against a weakening global economic backdrop, however, OPEC's  options may be limited. Members have less of an incentive to  stick to their quotas. "In the past," he said, "economics has  proved more important than politics."