New delay in start-up of Finnish EPR 
30112018

0921
NuclearThe start of regular electricity generation at the Olkiluoto 3 (OL3) EPR has been pushed back by a further four months and is now expected to begin in January 2020, Finnish utility Teollisuuden Voima Oyj (TVO) announced today.Last month, the plant's supplier - the Areva-Siemens consortium - announced it wanted to update the schedule for completing the unit as commissioning tests were taking longer than planned.
 
TVO said it has been informed by the Areva-Siemens consortium that fuel will now be loaded into the reactor core in June 2019, with grid connection to take place next October, and the start of regular electricity generation scheduled for January 2020.
 
Under the previous schedule provided by the plant supplier in June this year, fuel loading was expected in January 2019, grid connection in May and the start of regular electricity production in September.
 
The delay in completing the hot functional tests was due to vibrations in pressuriser surge line. Based on the test results, TVO said a comprehensive modification package would be implemented at OL3 to update the plant's electrical and instrumentation and control systems.
 
According to the commissioning programme, OL3 will generate 2-4 TWh of electricity with varying power levels during the test programme, which will begin at grid connection and end when regular electricity production starts.
Source: world-nuclear-news.org
Last month, the plant's supplier - the Areva-Siemens consortium - announced it wanted to update the schedule for completing the unit as commissioning tests were taking longer than planned. TVO said it has been informed by the Areva-Siemens consortium that fuel will now be loaded into the reactor core in June 2019, with grid connection to take place next October, and the start of regular electricity generation scheduled for January 2020. Under the previous schedule provided by the plant supplier in June this year, fuel loading was expected in January 2019, grid connection in May and the start of regular electricity production in September. The delay in completing the hot functional tests was due to vibrations in pressuriser surge line. Based on the test results, TVO said a comprehensive modification package would be implemented at OL3 to update the plant's electrical and instrumentation and control systems. According to the commissioning programme, OL3 will generate 2-4 TWh of electricity with varying power levels during the test programme, which will begin at grid connection and end when regular electricity production starts.Source: world-nuclear-news.org