  An OPEC production  cut does not appear close at hand, but the cartel is seemingly  eager to participate in an effort to bring up oil prices.  On Tuesday morning Saudi Arabia Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi will  speak at the conference, and market watchers are waiting to hear  his views on this important issue.On Monday, OPEC Secretary General Abdalla Salem El-Badri told CNBC that oil producers are still "feeling the water" over a possible  deal to freeze production, and it is "wait and see" as to whether  it leads to any other type of deal. Non-OPEC Russia and Saudi Arabia agreed with Venezuela and Qatar to cut production if other  producers join in.   El-Badri made the comment as he left a panel discussion he was  participating in at the IHS CERAWeek energy conference in  Houston. To the gathering he said, "Let's freeze production and,  if successful, take other steps in the future." El-Badri  said the proposed freeze should be evaluated after three to four  months to see if it succeeds.  The market has speculated that if oil producers can agree on a freeze,  a cut is not far behind. "It doesn't seem to be on the horizon  yet," said Bhushan Bahree, IHS senior director and advisor on global oil markets.El-Badri's comments did suggest the members of the Organization  of the Petroleum Exporting Countries are willing to go along, but it  is still not clear what position Iran will take. That country is busy  trying to restore its market share and had committed to bringing  back a million barrels of oil this year, adding to the 1.5 million to 2  million barrels currently oversupplying the market. Iran has  supported the freeze idea but has not said it would curb its  efforts to return oil to the market, now that sanctions against  it are lifted.The OPEC Secretary General said the cartel would next meet at its  regularly scheduled meeting in June, in response to a question on  whether it would hold a special meeting.OPEC has held steadfast to its policy of letting the market set  prices, even though its policy drove prices down sharply and some  of its members called for action. In fact, the cartel had  been accused of being powerless, or dead."We are not dead. We are alive, alive, alive," said El-Badri,  during a news briefing. He said OPEC has been blamed for cutting  production and now for not cutting production. "We're damned if  you do, damned if you don't."  El-Badri during the panel discussion explained that if prices do  rise, the industry will respond with more output. "Any increase  (in price), the shale oil will come immediately and cover any  reduction," he said, adding a balance needs to be found. "In the  past, supply didn't come in when production was cut."So far, talk of the production freeze deal has driven up prices,  but some analysts are skeptical that without an actual cut, just  leveling off production will not turn the tide of  oversupply. Neil Atikinson, head of the International Energy Agency's oil  market division, said the four producers who proposed the  freeze were not anticipated to increase production anyway, and lacking a cut the outlook does not change. "It makes no difference to current market fundamentals," Atkinson  said. He was also attending the IHS CERAWeek conference. Russia has said it would like to have consultations on a  preliminary deal completed by March 1, with other countries  including Norway and Mexico. Tord Lien, Norway's minister of petroleum and energy told CNBC that his country speaks to other  producing nations but would not comment on whether it was talking  to Russia or its position on the freeze. Lien was part of an  afternoon panel at CERAWeek on Monday.El-Badri described the challenges facing OPEC with the growth of  the U.S. shale industry, noting the U.S. cannot be brought into an  accord like other producing nations with national oil companies. The IEA said in a new report Monday that U.S. shale producers  will take the biggest hit, with U.S. production expected to drop by  600,000 barrels of light tight oil this year because of weak crude prices. It sees another 200,000 barrels lost next year but then  sees prices stabilizing.The IEA report helped fuel a rally in West Texas Intermediate  crude, which was also responding to falling rig counts. WTI futures for  March expired Monday. The contract settled at $31.48 per  barrel, up 6.2 percent.John Kilduff, partner at Again Capital, said the freeze talk  also has pushed up the price. "I think the market's giving them  entire credit to have this freeze seemingly in place," said  Kilduff."He stated a lot of the obvious," said Kilduff of El-Badri. "When  it comes from him it carries more weight. They have a problem  with the shale guys and he acknowledged that."