  The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries  played hardball with oil producers over the last two years, and  now the cartel wants nonmembers to take one more hit.OPEC's free-market policy — which allowed crude prices to crater for two years — has created or worsened a host of problems in oil producing nations: budget deficits, recession, inflation and terms of trade shocks.  More than a dozen countries will meet this weekend to discuss  cutting their output to amplify OPEC's commitment last week to  slash its total production by 1.2 million barrels a day. Analysts  warn that few of them will deliver.  Some of the countries attending the meeting are those most  reliant on oil revenue — including Russia, Kazakhstan and  Oman. Notable nowshows include Brazil and Norway.  OPEC is seeking to secure 600,000 barrels per day of cuts from  non-OPEC producers, and Russia has committed to temporarily  cut production by about 300,000 barrels per day.  Prior to the announcement, the International Energy Agency said  it expects Brazil, Canada and Kazakhstan to pump  more in 2017, pushing total non-OPEC output growth to 500,000  barrels a day next year, compared with a projected decline of  900,000 barrels a day this year.  Non-OPEC members have many reasons to keep oil flowing.   Kazakhstan just started up its Kashagan field after a decade of delays, and stakeholders must start producing to recoup $55 billion in investment. Even conservative estimates see the project increasing its output to between 150,000 to 200,000 barrels a day next year.  "That's 200,000 barrels that will be coming to market that  someone else will have to cut to balance the market," said Matt  Smith, head of commodities research at ClipperData.  Other producers like Mexico have  already entered a period of structural decline and further cuts  would be untenable.  But there is another reason for inaction: Market conditions  simply aren't scary enough anymore.  JPMorgan analysts said in a research note, "The cycle lows have  most likely [passed], and OPEC must now rely on the threat of a  return to these conditions as leverage in their discussions with  non-OPEC exporters."  Indeed, the idea to freeze production first surfaced when Brent  crude hit a 12-year low of $27 a barrel this winter. But with oil  trading between $50 and $55, non-OPEC producers may be too  complacent to cut, said Robert McNally, president of The Rapidan  Group.    "The only time you get real collective cuts, including by  non-OPEC, is when prevailing prices are at rock bottom lows," he  told CNBC. "My sense is the fear factor is not strong enough to  get countries to do anything but promise cuts that they never  intend to make."  To be sure, OPEC and world oil producers have been here before.  In the midst of an economic slump in 2001, non-OPEC producers  including Russia, Norway and Mexico agreed to cut 500,000 barrels  a day to boost the impact of OPEC's 1.5-million-barrel  pullback.  Russia was widely seen ignoring its pledge to cut 150,000 barrels  a day, and Norway eventually abandoned its quotas.  Now, Russia is ostensibly back on board. But many analysts are  focusing on the phrasing of Russian Energy Minister Alexander  Novak's pledge, which McNally called a "litany of hedges, caveats  and conditions."  After the agreement was announced, Novak said, "Russia will  gradually cut output in the first half of 2017 by up to 300,000  barrels per day, on a tight schedule as technical capabilities  allow."  Analysts say that statement gives Russia plenty of wiggle room in  terms of when its producers begin cutting, how much they cut and  their capability to cut.  The country has recently bought itself breathing room as well.  On Wednesday, the Kremlin announced it had agreed to sell a  19.5-percent stake in Russia's top oil producer, Rosneft, for $11  billion.  Moscow has already taken other measures to weather the downturn,  including devaluing its currency. Regional neighbors Kazakhstan  and Azerbaijan followed suit, stoking inflation in the  short term, but protecting their exports.  Those adjustments were painful at first but have made the oil  price downturn more bearable, said Chris Weafer, co-founder of  consulting agency Macro Advisory Partners. Meanwhile, the Saudis  and other Gulf oil producers have kept their currency pegged to  the U.S. dollar, forcing them to draw down reserves.  Now, non-OPEC producers may be attending this weekend's meeting  simply because the appearance of a deal can provide additional  relief.  "They understand it's good politically to give support to this  deal because it provides support for the oil price through the  winter, but in reality I don't think anyone expects this to be  carried through in any credible way," he said.