Nordic countries to get a network of 50 LNG filling stations 
10092018

0850
LNGGasum is investing in the construction of approximately 50 gas filling stations for heavy-duty vehicles in Finland, Sweden and Norway. The stations are expected to be operational by the beginning of the 2020's.This investment will multiply the size of the Nordic heavy-duty vehicle gas filling station network, enabling considerable emission cuts.
 
In the Nordic countries, heavy-duty road transport plays a key role in the logistics system while at the same time generating a significant proportion of road transport emissions. For the emission reduction targets set at the national and international levels to be reached, concrete solutions are needed to reduce heavy-duty road transport emissions considerably from the current levels. Among the low-emission fuels, the most competitive alternative for this purpose is LNG.
 
The 50 new filling stations will be located at key transport nodes and will enable significant increases in the use of LNG and biogas in heavy-duty transport.
 
The switch of heavy-duty vehicles to LNG or LBG will result in significant cuts in carbon dioxide, nitrogen dioxide, particulate and noise emissions.
 
The demand for cleaner transport solutions is increasing rapidly as solutions are sought to combat climate change. Delivery and heavy-duty road vehicles are currently responsible for more than a quarter of road transport emissions in the EU. Together with new gas vehicle models, the expanding gas filling station network will create good conditions for road fuel gas market growth and emission cuts.
Source: lngindustry.com
This investment will multiply the size of the Nordic heavy-duty vehicle gas filling station network, enabling considerable emission cuts. In the Nordic countries, heavy-duty road transport plays a key role in the logistics system while at the same time generating a significant proportion of road transport emissions. For the emission reduction targets set at the national and international levels to be reached, concrete solutions are needed to reduce heavy-duty road transport emissions considerably from the current levels. Among the low-emission fuels, the most competitive alternative for this purpose is LNG. The 50 new filling stations will be located at key transport nodes and will enable significant increases in the use of LNG and biogas in heavy-duty transport. The switch of heavy-duty vehicles to LNG or LBG will result in significant cuts in carbon dioxide, nitrogen dioxide, particulate and noise emissions. The demand for cleaner transport solutions is increasing rapidly as solutions are sought to combat climate change. Delivery and heavy-duty road vehicles are currently responsible for more than a quarter of road transport emissions in the EU. Together with new gas vehicle models, the expanding gas filling station network will create good conditions for road fuel gas market growth and emission cuts.Source: lngindustry.com