Novatek signs 2 agreements for Arctic Liquefied Natural Gas 2 project with China 
02112017

1324
LNGThe Russian company Novatek announced that it has signed deals with Chinese National Petroleum Company (CNPC) and the China Development Bank partners to collaborate in implementing the Arctic LNG 2 project.According to the firm's declaration, the strategic partnership confirms that Novatek, one of the biggest independent national gas companies, and the CNPC will join forces in implementing the enormous gas project, the Arctic LNG 2. Under the terms of the accord, the firms will collaborate in various segments of LNG and natural gas markets, counting as well LNG trading and gas infrastructure development.

Leonid Mikhelson, Chairman of Novatek's Management Board affirmed: "Our companies already have a history of effective cooperation, including the successful implementation of the Yamal LNG project [an LNG project in the Russian Arctic]."
 
He stated that a key partnership accord will further empower their reciprocal ties and will open up new opportunities for both companies, using the experience in applying LNG projects combined with the great perspectives in the Chinese market, one of the highest potential gas markets in the worlds.

The Russian firm also inked a second deal - a memorandum of understanding with the China Development Bank, aiming a cooperation in implementing the Arctic LNG 2 project, providing financing and investment into the capital of this project as well as in other prospects.
 
Mikhelson further concluded: "Our strategy envisages a rapid growth of LNG production using international financing sources,".
 
According to the firm's declaration, the strategic partnership confirms that Novatek, one of the biggest independent national gas companies, and the CNPC will join forces in implementing the enormous gas project, the Arctic LNG 2. Under the terms of the accord, the firms will collaborate in various segments of LNG and natural gas markets, counting as well LNG trading and gas infrastructure development.
Leonid Mikhelson, Chairman of Novatek's Management Board affirmed: "Our companies already have a history of effective cooperation, including the successful implementation of the Yamal LNG project [an LNG project in the Russian Arctic]." 
He stated that a key partnership accord will further empower their reciprocal ties and will open up new opportunities for both companies, using the experience in applying LNG projects combined with the great perspectives in the Chinese market, one of the highest potential gas markets in the worlds.
The Russian firm also inked a second deal - a memorandum of understanding with the China Development Bank, aiming a cooperation in implementing the Arctic LNG 2 project, providing financing and investment into the capital of this project as well as in other prospects. Mikhelson further concluded: "Our strategy envisages a rapid growth of LNG production using international financing sources,".
 