Novatek signs MoU with Saibu for cooperation in Japan 
04012019

1002
LNGRussian natural gas producer Novatek has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Japanese gas distribution company Saibu Gas  concerning liquefied natural gas (LNG) cooperation in Japan, Kallanish Energy reports.The agreement signed last week covers potential cooperation in the end-user market, and optimizing Novatek's LNG portfolio supplies to the Asia-Pacific region by using the Hibiki LNG terminal in Japan.
 
Novatek deputy chairman Lev Feodosyev said the region is a "priority destination" for the LNG produced by Novatek projects. "Our ability to use the Hibiki terminal will help diversify our customer base and increase the flexibility of deliveries to the premium LNG markets," he added.
 
The firm didn't provide further details of the potential partnership.
 
Novatek's upstream activities are concentrated mainly in the prolific Yamal-Nenets Autonomous Region, which is the world's largest natural gas producing area and accounts for approximately 80% of Russia's natural gas production. The region also holds a 15% share of global gas production.
Source: kallanishenergy.com
The agreement signed last week covers potential cooperation in the end-user market, and optimizing Novatek's LNG portfolio supplies to the Asia-Pacific region by using the Hibiki LNG terminal in Japan. Novatek deputy chairman Lev Feodosyev said the region is a "priority destination" for the LNG produced by Novatek projects. "Our ability to use the Hibiki terminal will help diversify our customer base and increase the flexibility of deliveries to the premium LNG markets," he added. The firm didn't provide further details of the potential partnership. Novatek's upstream activities are concentrated mainly in the prolific Yamal-Nenets Autonomous Region, which is the world's largest natural gas producing area and accounts for approximately 80% of Russia's natural gas production. The region also holds a 15% share of global gas production.Source: kallanishenergy.com