Offshore construction begins on Trans Adriatic Pipeline project in Albania 
23102018

1055
Natural GasPartners of the EUR4.5bn Trans Adriatic Pipeline (TAP) have commenced the construction works for the offshore part of the 878km natural gas pipeline in Albania.The Trans Adriatic Pipeline, which is being laid between the Turkish-Greek border and Italy, will pass through the Adriatic Sea for 105km. It aims to deliver Caspian natural gas from the giant Shah Deniz II field in Azerbaijan to Europe.
 
The new natural gas pipeline will be linked to the Trans Anatolian Pipeline (TANAP) at the Turkish-Greek border at Kipoi, from where it will cross Greece and Albania and the Adriatic Sea, before reaching the shores of Southern Italy.
 
As per the project schedule, the physical offshore pipeline installation is planned to be executed in 2019. Having broken ground in 2016, the Trans Adriatic Pipeline is expected to be commissioned in 2020.
 
In July 2018, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) had approved up to EUR500m of loan for the construction of the Trans Adriatic Pipeline. In February 2018, the European Investment Bank approved a EUR1.5bn loan for the pipeline project, which is part of the larger $40bn Southern Gas Corridor project.
Source: compelo.com
The Trans Adriatic Pipeline, which is being laid between the Turkish-Greek border and Italy, will pass through the Adriatic Sea for 105km. It aims to deliver Caspian natural gas from the giant Shah Deniz II field in Azerbaijan to Europe. The new natural gas pipeline will be linked to the Trans Anatolian Pipeline (TANAP) at the Turkish-Greek border at Kipoi, from where it will cross Greece and Albania and the Adriatic Sea, before reaching the shores of Southern Italy. As per the project schedule, the physical offshore pipeline installation is planned to be executed in 2019. Having broken ground in 2016, the Trans Adriatic Pipeline is expected to be commissioned in 2020. In July 2018, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) had approved up to EUR500m of loan for the construction of the Trans Adriatic Pipeline. In February 2018, the European Investment Bank approved a EUR1.5bn loan for the pipeline project, which is part of the larger $40bn Southern Gas Corridor project.Source: compelo.com