  Oil prices slipped on Monday, pressured by doubts that large oil  producers will reduce production as promised and on expectations  that U.S. production would increase again this year.  Benchmark Brent  crude oil was down 10 cents a barrel at  $55.35 by 0915 GMT and U.S. light crude fell 10 cents  to $52.27.  The Organization of the  Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) has agreed to cut  production by 1.2 million barrels per day (bpd) to 32.5 million  bpd from Jan. 1 in an attempt to clear global oversupply that has  depressed prices for more than two years.  Russia and other key exporters outside OPEC have said they will  also cut output.  But global oil production remains high and, with inventories near  record levels in many areas, investors doubt that OPEC and its  allies can trim output enough to push up prices.  "Cuts by OPEC and non-OPEC countries have just started and it  will take some time for them to filter through," said Bjarne  Schieldrop, chief commodities analyst at SEB Markets in Oslo.  "We do not really expect the oil price to strengthen much more in  the first quarter of 2017."  Saudi Arabian Energy Minister Khalid al-Falih said on Monday that  OPEC and non-OPEC producers are unlikely to extend their  agreement to cut oil output beyond six months.  "We don't think it's necessary given the level of compliance,"  Falih said. "My expectations (are) ... that the rebalancing that  started slowly in 2016 will have its full impact by the first  half."  Russian oil and gas condensate production averaged 11.1 million  bpd for Jan. 1-15, two energy industry sources said on Monday,  down only 100,000 bpd from December. Russia has committed to a  300,000 bpd cut during the first half of 2017 as a part of the  global deal with OPEC.  Rising U.S. oil output is also preventing crude from climbing  further.  Goldman Sachs said it expects year-on-year U.S. oil production to  rise by 235,000 bpd in 2017, taking into account wells that have  been drilled and are likely to start producing in the first half  of the year.  U.S. oil output is now at 8.95 million bpd, up from less than 8.5  million bpd in June last year and at similar levels to 2014, when  overproduction send the market into a tailspin.