  Low oil prices have forced U.S. drillers to make tough decisions  on capital spending and staffing, but when it comes to mergers  and acquisitions, the industry has remained stuck in wait-and-see  mode.  Dealmaking in America's oil patch has been muted throughout the  collapse in crude prices, with asset sales slowing to a  trickle and corporate buyouts few and far between.  Meanwhile, more oil and gas exploration and production companies  than previously expected have opted for bankruptcy, and more  restructurings are likely on the way, analysts told CNBC. Read MoreHow US drillers  weathered OPEC's new oil order  To date, about two dozen companies have reached restructuring  deals with their creditors. Those have mostly been small players,  but the list includes larger drillers such as Sabine Oil & Gas and  Quicksilver  Resources, as well as KKR's long-troubled Samson Resources.  Several of the companies now going through a recapitalization or  restructuring were facing balance sheet challenges even prior to  the oil downturn, said J.P. Hanson, head of the E&P group at investment banking firm Houlihan Lokey.   "Given the current commodity price environment and challenges  that E&P companies are facing, there hasn't been a company to  date that I've said, 'Oh, I didn't see that coming,'" he told  CNBC. "Most of the companies that have been going through a  restructuring were already in need of additional funds and/or a  balance sheet recapitalization."  But prepackaged bankruptcies will presumably continue into 2016,  especially if OPEC  members agree to stick to a policy of maintaining output in an  oversupplied market when they meet Friday, Kim Brady, partner at  Solic Capital, told CNBC.  That approach has kept a lid on oil prices and pressured U.S.  drillers, who face higher drilling costs.   "If the Saudis continue with the current policy (of aggressively  pumping oil despite low prices) so that we still have robust  supply, then I think you are going to have even bigger companies  filing," Brady said. "I'm predicting more bankruptcies in the  absence of Saudi intervention." Read MoreThis is when oil will  hit rock bottom: CNBC Survey  As restructurings pile up, one critical question is whether  creditors have been too optimistic and underestimated the  liquidity needs of U.S. shale drillers, Bill Derrough, co-head of  investment bank Moelis & Co.'s recapitalization and  restructuring group, told CNBC.  "The distinction will be whether or not the situation requires  additional capital. It's liquidity, liquidity, liquidity," he  said.  If the current arrangements turn out to be inadequate, companies  could find it difficult to raise additional capital or wring  further concessions from investors. Creditors who have already  taken a haircut may be unwilling to write another check to keep  the music going, Derrough said.  In the worst-case scenario, unsecured creditors would decide  liquidating the company's assets may provide a better recovery  than continuing to fund operations.   That would be one catalyst — albeit an extreme one —  for M&A activity, which is down nearly 70 percent on the year  through the middle of November, according to a CNBC analysis of  data provided by Dealogic.  A more likely scenario is that the gap between what buyers will  pay for assets and what sellers will accept begins to narrow.  Currently, drillers remain loathe to part with their assets at  fire-sale prices.  That could change once banks re-evaluate drillers' borrowing  ability in the spring, said Mike Rowe, analyst at energy  investment bank Tudor, Pickering, Holt & Co. This year's  biannual redeterminations in April and October were easier on oil  producers than many expected, leaving them with access to bank  lending.  Already, equity and debt markets that kept cash flowing into  energy firms earlier this year are closing.  U.S. drillers raised $10.8 billion in equity in the first  quarter, but issuance fell to $2.3 billion in the  August-to-October period. Bond issuance sunk 88 percent  from $14.7 billion in Q2 to about $1.7 billion last quarter.  Without access to outside finance, exploration and production  companies' balance sheets are too banged up to make purchases,  and their stock market capitalizations have plummeted, making  share deals untenable, Brady said.   "Here's the problem with E&P players: They have no cash,"  Brady said. "So how are they going to make this deal unless they  can buy for really cheap?"   The most likely buyers might be private equity firms, many of  whom are capable of keeping investments on their books for the  several years many now anticipate it will take for the oil market  to turn around.   But Brady cautioned that many private equity firms that picked up  oil assets 15 to 18 months ago "got creamed" and may think twice  about deploying more cash in the space. 