  The rollercoaster ride in oil prices continued on Thursday, after  the market tumbled on news that U.S. inventories were at  a near-80 year high.  The price of Brent and WTI crude oil veered between losses and  gains in early trading. By 12:00 p.m. GMT, Brent was around 1.3   percent higher at $54.89 a barrel and WTI was up around 0.7 percent at $48.81.    This shift higher followed price declines of around 6.5 percent  on Wednesday, after the Energy Information Administration  reported that U.S. oil inventories were at their highest since  1930. The news intensified investor fears that prices—which  have fallen by around 50 percent since last June—would  remain under heavy pressure from global oversupply, as well as  from the strong U.S. dollar and  weak demand.  This volatility could be set to continue, with one oil  expert warning on Thursday that the growth in U.S. output would  not start to slow until mid-2015 at the  earliest.   "You're just seeing a huge amount of production coming on. I  don't think we expect to see any declines in U.S. output until at  least the middle of the year… But in terms of significant  production coming off, it is going to take a bit longer," Jason  Feer, head of business intelligence at advisory firm and  brokerage Poten & Partners, told CNBC.  Read MoreInvestors eye oil swings,  reaction on Greece  The International Energy Agency noted last month that U.S.  companies were revising down their capital expenditure plans for  2015, with estimates for decreases ranging between 10 percent and  50 percent. The agency also said there had been reports of small  U.S. operators filing for bankruptcy—these include WBH  Energy, a tiny shale producer in Texas. In addition, contract  drillers such as Pioneer Energy  Services were reporting early rig contract terminations.  "By the end of the year, and early next year, you are going to  start to see those capex cuts really bite," said Feer. "I think  something is going to have to give…The price war is really  going to continue until somebody blinks."  Read MoreBP's Dudley: Oil may stick at $50 'for  some time'  In the short-term, Feer warned that there would be some "real  pain."  "You are seeing fairly large shale players in trouble,  because they are so highly leveraged," he said. Simon Flowers, head of corporate analysis at Wood  Mackenzie, said that "very few" oil companies could manage their  cash flows with prices so low.   "Our numbers suggest that virtually every oil company is under  water at current prices of $50 or so," he told CNBC.   However, Feer noted that in the case of U.S. shale, industry-wide efforts were helping lower the cost of production, bringing down the breakeven price. "A year or two ago, everybody said $70 or $80 was breakeven. Now  it looks like a lot of people are breakeven at $50, and that is  heading down, and you have got hundreds of tech companies trying  to figure out to make this cheaper," he said.   "Even the major oil companies—Shell, Exxon—who are  looking at shale, are really welcoming that and helping to fund  that, to help drive those prices down." Under pressure from Saudi Arabia, the Organization of the  Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) has to date refused to cut  production in order to boost global prices. On Thursday, Saudi's finance minister, Ibrahim Abdulaziz Al-Assaf, reiterated that his  country had no plans to give into demands to decrease    output.  "We (have) built the buffers to help us in sustaining our  policies, and not disrupting them, so I am comfortable that we  will be able to continue that," he told CNBC. Other OPEC members are less confident, however, and have  expressed concerns about the impact of oversupply. On Wednesday,  Iranian Oil Minister Bijan Namdar Zanganeh said that excess  global crude supply of 2 million barrels per day would weigh on  oil prices for the first six months of this year, according to  Bloomberg.    Hopes exist that a slight increase in oil prices could prove  enough to keep the industry healthy, while maintaining the  economic stimulus of a low price environment.   "The recent pick-up in oil prices has the potential to develop  into a 'Goldilocks' scenario: prices high enough to keep most oil  producers in business, but low enough to provide a substantial  boost to global economic activity," Julian Jessop, chief global  economist at Capital Economics, said in a research note on  Wednesday.   He forecast that Brent prices would recover to $60 a barrel this  year and to $70 over the medium-term. "From the perspective of the world as a whole, $60 to $70  could be pretty much the perfect outcome," said  Jessop.  "Some stabilization in oil prices—at almost any  level—would remove a major source of uncertainty and  volatility. The apparent free-fall in the price of the world's  most important commodity had understandably fueled concerns that  that something was seriously wrong in the global  economy."Read MoreWhy Chinese oil firms are bucking the    oil slump