  Oil prices extended losses on Friday after Reuters reported  Saudi  Arabia will not attend a meeting of non-OPEC  producers on Monday, where production levels are on the  agenda.  The decline in prices suggests markets are disappointed by the  news, but analysts were split on what the latest headline  actually means for the Saudis' goal of of getting other oil-producing countries to cut production.  Monday's meeting was to discuss the contribution that  producers outside the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting  Countries will make to a supply-limiting agreement. OPEC  oil ministers meet on Wednesday to finalize a deal agreed to in  September to limit output among cartel members themselves.  OPEC sources said Saudi Arabia was not attending the Monday  meeting because it wants to focus on reaching consensus within  the organization first. The group is still attempting to overcome  objections from Iraq and Iran, which have asked to be exempt  from production cuts.  John Kilduff, founding partner at energy hedge fund Again Capital, said he views the news as "a tremendously bearish development."  Monday's meeting was supposed to seal the deal on non-OPEC  producers' commitment to production limits, according to Kilduff,  who has long been skeptical that OPEC can get a deal done.  OPEC has "played a nice game. They've been able to keep the  market supported to a degree with their rhetoric. It looks like  it's all going to come crashing down," Kilduff said.  It is possible the Saudis are not attending the meeting because they don't believe non-OPEC members will put significant production cuts on the table, said Andy Lipow, president of Lipow  Oil Associates.  "It can't be positive, because otherwise you'd show up," he told  CNBC.  He noted that Mexico, which has opened its oil and gas  industry to foreign investment, is aiming to increase its production, while  Azerbaijan needs to keep oil revenue rolling in. The best OPEC can  hope from top oil producer Russia is a freeze production levels, rather  than a cut, he added.Some analysts worry a freeze and planned cuts will not be sufficient to boost prices, following a fierce battle for market share that has sent OPEC and Russian production soaring."The bottom line is they've yet to come to a deal in spite of all  their optimistic pronouncements, and the heavy lifting is going to  have to be done by Saudi Arabia," Lipow said.  However, Barclays Head of Energy Commodities Research Michael  Cohen said he does not believe it's newsworthy that the Saudis  are not attending the non-OPEC meeting. The view has long been  that Russia would not commit to anything more than a freeze at  this December's levels, and even that is dependent on an OPEC  agreement, he said.  "I still am of the view there will be a face-saving measure.  They'll put together a cut that (makes official) what they were going  to do anyway," he said.  Cohen said he expects the Saudis could agree to cut about 500,000  barrels a day, and the United Arab Emirates and Kuwait about 100,000 each, or 200,000 at most. But he said it will not be clear whether they  meet those goals for several months, until the production data is  reported.  Despite Friday's headline, nothing indicates the Saudis aren't committed to getting a deal done, said RBC Capital Markets  Global Head of Commodity Strategy Helima Croft.  "But given that there still remains such residual skepticism  about a deal, investors will seize on any headline as a sign  things will fall apart next week in Vienna," she told CNBC. — Reuters contributed to this story.