  Crude oil futures were little changed in early Asian trade  Friday, having risen in the previous session after a decline in  U.S. oil inventories offset a non-eventful OPEC meeting.  Benchmark front-month Western Texas Intermediate light,  sweet crude oil futures on the New York Mercantile Exchange  were last up 0.1 percent at $49.21 on Friday,  after settling 0.3 percent or 16 cents higher at  $49.17 a barrel on Thursday. European Brent crude was last also up 0.1 percent  at $50.11 a barrel after settling 0.6 percent or 32 cents  higher at $50.04 a barrel on Thursday—its first  settlement above $50 a  barrel in seven months. OPEC refrained from changing its oil output policy on  Thursday after members failed to agree on a new  production ceiling, an OPEC delegate told Reuters. "OPEC unsurprisingly failed to agree on  anything. The market got very excited about a potential output  ceiling despite OPEC usually ignoring these ceilings in the past  and key members, Saudi Arabia and Iran, fighting multiple proxy  wars against each other," said spread better IG's market analyst,  Angus Nicholson. Oil prices found support instead in U.S.  Energy Information Administration's announcement of a fall  in 1.4 million barrels of crude inventories, the third weekly  decline in a row. Oil prices may find further  support, said US Global Investor's chief executive  officer, Frank Holmes. "After Memorial Day in  America, it's the big driving season," he told CNBC's "The  Rundown".  The outcome of the latest OPEC meeting was in line with market  expectations of a non-announcement, after a April meeting in Doha disappointed  investors as talks of an output freeze dissipated .  Oil prices have fallen by as much as 70 percent since the summer  of 2014 due to burgeoning energy output and a slowdown in global  growth.  Despite steep losses that have hit major oil producing economies,  OPEC has stood pat on its production policy and is now pumping  around 32 million barrels a day as kingpin Saudi Arabia persisted  with its strategy of low-cost production to squeeze out smaller  and higher-cost shale oil producers.  With its most recent non-action however, OPEC is effectively ceding its position as a price-maker, said Neil Beveridge, senior analyst  at Bernstein Research."OPEC is  saying we'll let the market decide on price rather than OPEC...Effectively, shale is now the swing producer in the global market, it's not OPEC," he told CNBC's "Squawk Box".Still strong global demand is likely to boost oil prices in the second half of 2016, particularly as non-OPEC production falls amid supply disruptions in Canada, Nigeria and potentially Venezuela, Beveridge added.  Iran's return to the market after Western sanctions were lifted  has added to supply pressures as the country's refused to budge  on increasing its supply.  Despite simmering tensions, the mood at OPEC's latest meeting was  far more conciliatory than previous ones.  Abdalla Salem el-Badri, Secretary General of OPEC told CNBC as  the meeting got underway on Thursday that for the first time in  many months there was a "very positive" atmosphere among the  cartel's members. He added he was pleased with the way the  oil market was recovering.  "Because we did not have the public displays of discontent like  in December, they can spin the non-agreement on a  production ceiling as a sign of OPEC unity. The party line is  that they all agreed the market is moving in the right  direction," wrote Helima Croft, global head of commodity strategy  at RBC Capital Markets, from Vienna.  OPEC last decided to change output in December 2008.Holly Ellyatt contributed to this article  Follow CNBC International on Twitter and Facebook.