  The price of oil could be stuck firmly at around $50 a barrel by  2020, a Goldman  Sachs analyst told CNBC, raising new fears about the energy  companies that have already started to cut costs, projects and  jobs to cope with falling revenues.  Several big oil and gas companies announced this week they intend  to make cutbacks to stay afloat in this sinking environment.  Royal Dutch Shell expects to cut 6,500 jobs, 6,000 for Centrica, and at Chevron, a 2 percent slash  to its global workforce.   These measures were introduced while Brent crude and West  Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude are trading around $53  and $48 a barrel respectively as the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries  has kept its supply high – and process low – in its  battle for market dominance over U.S. shale oil.  Read MoreChevron  earnings miss expectations  But Michele Della Vigna, co-head of European equity research at  Goldman Sachs, told CNBC Friday that by 2020, they see oil around $50  per barrel.  "What we've learned from this reporting season is that deflation  is accelerating from a cost perspective. Efficiency is improving  in all the mature regions and productivity is sharply improving  in almost all the shale places in the U.S."  "With all of that compounds to what we think will be a multi (year) deflationary trend in oil. If we look to the end of the  decade, we see oil at $50, as this productivity continues and as  costs keep coming down."  Goldman Sachs' estimate conflicts with World Bank's latest commodity price forecast,  who forecast crude  oil to be at $57.50 per barrel on average this year, and  $71.90 by 2020.   However, this isn't a time to get despondent. Roberto Cominotto,  Investment Manager at GAM said in a note, that the energy sector  still can provide attractive investment opportunities, despite  the low oil price environment.  "The energy sector (still) provides attractive investment  opportunities, even with oil prices significantly below 100 USD.  These can be found primarily in mid and small cap producers,  which have the lowest production costs in the sector."  Cominotto gave U.S. shale oil and gas producers as an example,  like Cardinal  Energy or Torc  Oil & Gas as these firms can grow even at this current  level.  Todd Horwitz, author & founder at Averagejoeoptions.com, also  seemed optimistic on the energy sector, telling CNBC Friday, that  he would put money on the sector, during its most "stressed  times."  "We know that oil can go a bit lower, that's there's trouble with  the dollar, there's worldwide manipulation with the currencies,  but here's a level – you've got stocks like Haliburton down  around 40 – you've got a lot of good opportunity here, that  if you're investing these are opportunities to buy into these  markets because these companies are strong and will improve with  stronger prices."Read MoreWhyUS oil will never go it alone  In terms of U.S. shale, Vigna gave its current breakeven at $60  per barrel, however it expected it would eventually match up with  other oil prices at $50 per barrel by 2020.  "(For shale,) it's not just about becoming more efficient and  costs coming down, it's about improving the technology."  "As we improve productivity, and each well starts to produce more  and recover more from the ground, this is where we think will  lead to this longer-term coming down of the oil price required  for shale production."  "At the moment, we think the breakeven is around $60, and is  going to come down around $50 by the end of the decade."  He added that the cuts in capital expenditure are currently  happening in areas "higher on the cost curve", including  deepwater, heavy oil and temporarily in shales. He went on to say  this will result in services costs reducing and countries become  more competitive, fuelling this "deflationary spiral."Read MoreOPEChas yet to win the fight against shale