  Oil prices rose on Friday, rebounding more than 25 percent from  12-year lows hit last week and cutting losses for the month, on  prospects of a deal between major exporters to cut production and  curb one of the biggest supply gluts in history.   Oil also drew support from weak U.S. GDP data that raised hopes  the Federal Reserve may slow any planned interest rate hikes.  The oil market rallied for four straight sessions this week after  the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries renewed  calls for rival producers to cut supply alongside its members  that triggered a volley of comments from Russia on a deal with  OPEC, something it had been refusing to do for 15 years. Brent  futures for March, which expired on Friday, closed at  $34.74 a barrel, 85 cents or 2.5 percent higher. On Jan. 20, it  hit $27.10, its lowest since November 2003. U.S. crude settled up 40 cents  or 1.2 percent, at $33.62 per barrel, having hit a high of $34.40  in the session.   For the week, Brent was 7.9 percent higher and U.S. crude 4.4  percent higher, paring their monthly losses to 6.8 percent and  9.3 percent respectively.   Baker Hughes reported its weekly count of oil rigs in U.S. fields  fell by 12 to a total of 498. At this time last year, drillers  were operating 1,223 rigs in U.S. oil fields.  Also on Friday, monthly data from the U.S. government's Energy  Information Administration showed American oil production ticked  down slightly in November. U.S. output stood at 9.318 million  barrels per day in November, versus 9.370 million bpd in October.  Trading was volatile, with both contracts briefly turning  negative after the Wall Street Journal cited an Iranian oil  official as saying the country would not join an immediate OPEC  production cut. The paper said Iran wants to boost crude exports  by 1.5 million barrels per day.  Russian Deputy Prime Minister Arkady Dvorkovich said on Friday  the country would not intervene to balance the market. His  comments fed growing doubts about a possible deal mentioned by  Energy Minister Alexander Novak the previous day.  But a few hours later, Russia's foreign ministry said veteran  minister Sergei Lavrov, who almost never comments on oil  policies, would visit the UAE and Oman to discuss oil  markets. "The market has rewarded these statements about the possibility  of a deal, even though I think it's ridiculous," said John  Kilduff, partner at Again Capital LLC in New York.  He noted that Iran and Iraq were determined to boost production,  and were unlikely to come together with Saudi Arabia to cut OPEC  output. The Saudis have made no official statement on a deal.  "This is a rally on false hopes, unfortunately"   Other analysts said oil prices may have found a bottom and could  rally as high as $45 by year-end as non-OPEC supply is reduced  and global demand improves.   U.S. oil production fell in November for the second straight  month, the Energy Information Administration said.  U.S. shale producers, who have helped add to the glut, have  slashed 2016 capital spending plans more than expected, with one  saying prices would need to rise more than 20 percent to turn a  profit.   Meanwhile the U.S. oil drilling rig count fell for the sixth  straight week with more cuts seen, oil services company Baker  Hughes Inc said.   "With more energy companies announcing cuts and OPEC  contemplating a cut, it looks like oil is forming a bottom," said  Phil Flynn, an analyst at Price Futures Group in Chicago.  "Now the question becomes how high can they go. The charts look  like a test near $40 is on the cards." 