  Oil prices were on track to a weekly loss as potentially higher  Iraqi crude exports and bearish U.S. inventory data weighed on  the market.  Also on Friday, the number of rigs operating in the United States  rose for a fourth consecutive week, increasing by 14 to a total  of 371 rigs, oilfield services firm Baker Hughes reported.  While many expect global oversupply of oil to ease in the near  term, huge amounts of crude remain in vessels at sea and storage  tanks on land as the rebalancing takes longer than some had  anticipated. Brent  crude was down 54 cents, or 1.17 percent, at $45.66. It fell as low as $45.26 earlier, the  lowest since May 11. The contract was on pace for a weekly loss  of nearly 5 percent. U.S. West Texas  Intermediate (WTI) settled down 56 cents, or 1.25 percent,  at $44.19 a barrel, and last fell 57 cents, or 1.27 percent, to $44.18.  In the Middle East, Iraq's oil exports are set to rise in July,  according to loading data and an industry source, putting supply  growth from OPEC's second-largest producer back on track after  two months of decline.  Exports from southern Iraq in the first 21 days of July have  averaged 3.28 million barrels per day (bpd), according to loading  data tracked by Reuters and an industry source. That would be up  from 3.18 million bpd in June.   The rise came as a report by BMI Research on Friday said  fundamentals in the Asian diesel market remain weak, as demand  for the fuel continues to wane in key Asian markets.    "Tight margins, ample supplies and brimming stockpiles at key  diesel storage hubs suggest that a pullback in diesel output is  imminent," the report said.  While U.S. production has been falling, crude inventories are at  519.5 million barrels, historically high for this time of year,  the government's Energy Information Administration said this  week.  U.S. crude and oil product stocks rose 2.62 million barrels to an  all-time high of 2.08 billion barrels as gasoline stocks posted a  surprise summer build of 911,000 barrels.  Adding to that, market intelligence firm Genscape reported on  Thursday a build of 725,176 barrels for the week to July 19 at  the Cushing, Oklahoma delivery point for U.S. crude futures,  traders said.  "These large and increasing stocks will not only up the  likelihood of additional commercial short hedges, but will also  encourage the commercials to defer long hedges given the comfort  of more than ample supply availability," said Jim Ritterbusch of  Chicago-based oil markets consultancy Ritterbusch &  Associates.  Falling prices in the United States, coupled with low shipping  costs, have also encouraged traders to send U.S. oil to Europe,  which would add to supply in the region.  This has helped the market shake off further disruptions in  Nigeria, where the largest stream of crude is under force majeure  and pipeline attacks have cut some 700,000 barrels per day from  production, according to state oil firm NNPC.  "There is so much oil in storage that it will take months to  truly feel the erosion of the overhang," Energy Aspects said in a  note.   Inventories of oil products have also been climbing in Europe and  Asia, with gasoline stocks in the Amsterdam-Rotterdam-Antwerp hub  at record highs and BMI Research warning of "brimming stockpiles"  in Asia.  "The narrative of a balanced oil market (in the second half of  2016) has so far been an illusion," UBS oil analyst Giovanni  Staunovo said.  "Supply might actually increase in the near term with the further  return of disrupted production and higher Middle East production,  while demand growth is set to slow in emerging Asia."  Even so, some market participants braced for volatile trading.  "Our view is that WTI will fall to $40 in the near term but  rebound to $60 or even $70 by the year-end," said Salvatore  Recco, who helps oversee about $2 billion of client money at  Gravity Investments in Denver, Colorado.