  Oil prices sharply pared gains in post-settlement trading  after preliminary data from the American Petroleum Institute showed a surprise  build in U.S. gasoline stocks.  U.S. West Texas Intermediate crude was last up 1.5 percent at  $46.44 a barrel, while international Brent crude was up 1.5 percent at $49.08 a barrel.  Some traders had cautioned that the API's preliminary weekly U.S. crude  stockpiles data could show  a fourth week of builds.  "If we've learned anything about the oil market, it is that  sentiment is extremely fragile," said Michael Tran, director of  energy strategy at RBC Capital Markets in New York.  Earlier on Tuesday, oil settled up nearly 2 percent, hitting  five-week highs for a second straight day as sources at OPEC  spoke of Saudi Arabia's apparent desire for higher crude prices  while Russia met the producer group to discuss the market.  A weaker dollar also supported crude prices, as did the loss of  more than 700,000 barrels per day (bpd) in Nigerian output to  militant attacks and pipeline problems.  The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting  Countries will probably revive talks on freezing oil  output levels when it meets non-OPEC nations next month, OPEC  sources told Reuters, citing Saudi Arabia's preference for price  support measures.  Russian and OPEC energy officials discussed oil markets at a  meeting in Vienna, Russia's Energy Ministry said. Another "energy  dialogue" between Russia and OPEC has been scheduled there for  October.  "While it is tempting to dismiss the OPEC chatter as a non-factor  intended to talk up prices, we are also resigning to a momentum  shift in which our technical indicators are flashing green lights  in favor of further crude price rallies of at least a couple of  dollars a barrel," said Jim Ritterbusch of Chicago-based oil  markets consultancy Ritterbusch & Associates.  Technical analysts said oil could set 2016 highs in four to six  weeks if Brent crosses $50 a barrel and U.S. crude $48.  But volatility also looks certain. Speculators have ramped up  both bullish and bearish wagers. Brent crude settled up 88 cents,  or 1.8 percent, at $49.23 a barrel. It rose more after  settlement, reaching $49.34, its highest since July 7. U.S. West Texas Intermediate  crude rose 84 cents, or 1.8 percent, to settle at  $46.58. It reached $46.73 after settlement, its highest since  July 12.  The dollar hit an eight-week low, making greenback-denominated  oil more affordable to holders of the euro and other  currencies.  Brent and WTI have both gained more than 11 percent since  Thursday after Saudi Energy Minister Khalid al-Falih said the  kingdom would work with other producers to stabilize the market.  .  Many analysts were skeptical producers would cut a deal. An OPEC  production freeze plan in April was scuttled by Saudi Arabia,  which was keen to protect market share.  "Optimism on my part is quite sparse," Emmanuel Ibe Kachikwu, the  oil minister for Nigeria, an OPEC member, wrote on his Twitter  account.