  Officials from oil producing nations were once again talking up a  deal to curb output on Friday, but even if they reach an  agreement this month, crude prices will remain choppy this year,  according to RBC Capital Markets' Helima Croft.  The market experienced a "tale of two Augusts," RBC's head of commodity strategy told CNBC's  "Worldwide Exchange" on Friday. Oil prices were initially  bolstered by renewed hopes for an output freeze when OPEC members  and Russia meet on the sidelines of the International Energy  Forum in Algeria from Sept. 26 to 28. Russian President Vladimir Putin expressed support for  a production freeze in an interview with Bloomberg published Friday, the same day his energy minister, Alexander  Novak, played down the prospects of capping output. Also on Friday the foreign minister of top oil exporter Saudi Arabia said the kingdom is optimistic producers will reach a common position.  But the OPEC rally has been tempered by concern about oversupply as crude  and fuel stockpiles remained stubbornly high throughout August, and the United States logged  two straight weeks of record crude imports, Croft said. With storage so high and many OPEC members pumping at record  levels, a deal in Algeria would do little to affect global oil  supply, she said.  "This is all a sentiment game at this point. I think sentiment  has been driving the market, and so I think if you have the sense  that OPEC could do something, it does firm a floor and  potentially moves us four or five bucks higher on the day," she  said.  Still, RBC Capital Markets sees oil prices grinding higher into  the $50 range by year-end in the face of macroeconomic headwinds.  Those include a strong U.S. currency, which makes  dollar-denominated oil more expensive to holders of other  currencies.Oil prices have been stuck in a range between about $40 a barrel and the low $50s.  "It's going to be sloppy until year-end. We look to next year and  say we can clean out this overhang and the inventories. That's  when you move into the $60s," she said.