  The rapid fall in U.S. crude oil production in recent weeks could  be a sign the market is beginning to correct, Again  Capital founding partner John  Kilduff said Monday.  All eyes have been on U.S. oilfields as OPEC, led by Saudi Arabia, has opted to  maintain production levels and defend market share. In doing so,  the group hopes to force North American drillers to make the  first output cuts in order to balance an oversupplied market.  The boom in oil production in recent years, and the corresponding  oversupply, has largely been driven by the North American shale  oil and gas revolution.  Kilduff recently told CNBC oil could fall into the $20s, but said  he is now less confident that crude would in fact dip below $30.  He put the odds at 40 percent, citing weekly government data that  suggest U.S. production has fallen to 9.1 million barrels per  day from a recent high of about 9.6 million bpd. Read More Oil selloff  nearly done, may target $65: Trader  "The U.S. production is coming down faster than even I thought,"  he told CNBC's "Squawk  Box." "I think it's starting to correct already."  Goldman Sachs recently followed Kilduff's call with its own  projection that oil prices could fall into the $20s.  Stephen Schork, editor of the closely followed Schork Report, said prices absolutely could fall below $30, saying weakness on  the demand side of the crude equation is exacerbating oversupply.  He expects oil production to continue to contract this year after  banks reassess exploration and production companies' balance  sheets and redetermine their creditworthiness this fall. With their assets  now worth significantly less due to falling crude prices, Schork  sees liquidity drying up and "the blood rushing down the street"  in the oil patch turning into "a gusher."Read More  The trade if Goldman's oil plunge call is right  That liquidity crunch on the supply side will be compounded by  economic contraction among BRICs nations, G-7 countries and the  Asian tigers, he said.  Ultimately, supply will continue to outlast demand, and oil  prices could test the financial crisis low of $32.40, Schork  added.  "We get down that low, certainly we could break the $30 barrel  between now and the fourth quarter."