  Oil prices dropped on Friday and were headed toward their fourth  consecutive monthly fall as another round of monetary stimulus  from Japan pumped up the  and pounded a crude market already suffering from  robust supply.  Further pressure came from monthly surveys showing the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting  Countries made almost no effort to curb production this month  even as oil prices extended a months-long rout to four-year lows.  OPEC's output in October dipped by just 120,000 barrels per day,  according to a Reuters survey published Friday. The downtick was  led by Angola and Nigeria, with overall OPEC production still  hovering 720,000 barrels per day above its 30 million barrels a  day target. Read MoreOPEC may be forced to act on oil  prices  U.S. and Brent crude fell by about a dollar to put them both on  pace for the steepest monthly decline since May 2012, and the  longest monthly losing streak since 2008.  Brent for December was down 92 cents at $85.32 a barrel in late  morning trade, after holding below $84 throughout much of the  morning. The oil benchmark has fallen more than 10 percent so far  in October, its biggest monthly drop since May 2012.   U.S. crude was down 79 cents at $70.33 per barrel, after dipping  as low as $79.55 in mid-morning trade. It has lost 12 percent  this month.  OPEC Secretary General Abdullah al-Badri said on Wednesday the  cartel's output was unlikely to change in 2015 and that he was  not concerned about falling prices, echoing the views from  several of the group's core Gulf members.  There will be "tough discussions" at OPEC's next meeting in late  November but the cartel is unlikely to alter its official quota  of 30 million barrels a day, Hans van Cleef, senior energy  economist at ABN AMRO in Amsterdam, told the Reuters Global Oil  Forum. Read MoreUkraine, Russia, EU agree to natural  gas supply deal  "OPEC will be happy to see prices languish in a lower range in  order to regain market share against U.S. producers, whose costs  are higher," said Tony Machacek, a broker at Jefferies in London.  The Bank of Japan surprised  financial markets on Friday by expanding its stimulus program,  boosting Japanese equities but raising concerns about the  economic health of the oil importer.  "It's a big shot of stimulus, you see Japan basically doubling  down on quantitative easing at a time when the U.S. is getting  out of the Q.E. business," said Phil Flynn of the Price Futures  Group. "What better time to have an impact in the market, to have  a big shock value in the system?" Read MoreIrana 'time bomb' for oil prices  The decision also put pressure on the yen, contributing to the strength of the dollar, which  rose to a near seven-year peak of 112.22 yen.  The dollar rose to its highest level since June 2010 on Thursday  after data showed the U.S. economy grew 3.5 percent in the third  quarter, topping estimates for a 3 percent rise.CNBC contributed to this report.