Oil prices slumped to three-month lows on Monday and the bearish  sentiment not expected to shift any time soon thanks to a crisis  in Greece, the stocks rout in China and Iran supply fears.   Benchmark Brent crude oil futures fell more than 2 percent to as  low as $58.90 a barrel, while U.S. crude futures tumbled almost 5  percent to about $54.32.  Amrita Sen, chief oil analyst at Energy Aspects consultancy, told  CNBC that Brent crude could fall to $55, while U.S. oil prices  could weaken to the low-$50s-a-barrel range.   "This is all about the macro picture right now – Greece, the  Chinese stock market and the stronger dollar, which are all  having a big, big, impact on oil," she said.   Concerns that Greece is fast heading to an exit of the euro zone  after voters rejected creditor bailout terms on Sunday and a  slump in Chinese stocks have fueled worries about weak demand  growth at a time when oil markets have already been hit by a glut  of supply. Read More  Greece: After the big No, what next?   Turmoil in China's stock markets has sparked concern that a  slowdown in the Chinese economy -- the second largest in the  world -- could become more pronounced, reducing demand for  oil.   And in addition to Greece and , there's a stronger  dollar which often pressures oil prices by making the commodity  more expensive for holders of other currencies. The dollar index,  which measure the dollar's value against other major currencies,  was as much as 0.5 percent higher on Monday.  Bears out  "It's really not a good time to be long the oil markets," Lara  Magnusen, portfolio manager at Altegris Investments, told CNBC  Asia on Monday.   Oil prices, with Brent crude sliding more than 60 percent between  June last year and January, have recovered some ground in recent  months, climbing to almost $70 a barrel in early May.   Analysts said while they remained positive on the outlook for  demand, supply and risks to the global economy in the form of  Greece and China would continue to drive oil prices in the near  term.   "Demand has recovered, but OPEC (the Organization of the  Petroleum Exporting Countries) is still producing close to 31  (or) 31.5 million barrels a day and that has negated any positive  impact from reduced rig counts in the U.S.," Barclays Oil Analyst  Miswin Mahesh told CNBC. Read MoreAs rig counts rise, is  $70 oil still on the cards?   Data released last week showed oil rig counts in the U.S. rose  for the first time since December in a sign that the recovery in  oil prices was now encouraging producers to ramp up  production.  Don't forget Iran  A possible nuclear deal between Iran and global powers,  meanwhile, could add to the supply in oil markets if sanctions  are eased, adding downward pressure to oil prices.   "A deal seems a little optimistic, but I don't think we should  underestimate Iran. They have every incentive to increase their  outputs and exports, but just how quickly it takes to get on line  will depend on technology and their ability to get productivity  from oil reserves," said Altegris Investments' Magnusen.   "A lot depends on whether they can reach a deal. They may not  come online until 2016, but we are seeing that expectation of  supply pressure markets."  There is a Tuesday deadline for Iran and six world powers to  reach an agreement on the country's disputed nuclear  program. 