  Oil rose in post-settlement trade after a report that U.S. crude  oil stocks fell.  Crude inventories fell by 6.7 million barrels in the week  to July 1 to 520.9 million, compared with analysts' expectations  for a decrease of 2.3 million barrels. Crude stocks at the  Cushing, Oklahoma, delivery hub rose by 80,000  barrels,  American Petroleum Institute  said. U.S.  crude was last up $1.17, or 2.53 percent, at $47.78,  after it settled at $47.43 a barrel, up 1.78 percent, or 83  cents. The contract fell 5 percent to end at $46.60 on  Tuesday.  Global benchmark Brent futures were up 76 cents  at $48.72 a barrel after a 4.1-percent drop on Tuesday.  Before the report, oil prices had risen after a two-day decline  lured buyers back, although analysts cautioned the market will  likely remain under pressure from a U.S. gasoline glut and  economic worries over Britain's exit from the European Union. Gasoline  futures were up a quarter of a percent after hitting a  3-month low.  Profit for turning crude oil into gasoline, known as the gasoline  "crack," fell to a February bottom below $13 a barrel as  oversupply in the motor fuel forced U.S. refiners to cut output.  Vessels carrying gasoline-making components could not unload at  New York Harbor this week due to a glut.  "The fundamental weakness in gasoline markets is being  exemplified by the crack spread, which is closing in on levels  which would encourage refiners to dial back on runs," said Matt  Smith, analyst at New York-based oil cargo tracker Clipperdata.  "At below $15 a barrel, the crack is at less than half the  profitability it showed this time last year."  Ole Hansen, commodity strategist at Saxo Bank in Copenhagen, told  the Reuters Global Oil Forum that Brent was edging closer to the  technical support level of $47 a barrel while U.S. crude was  approaching support of $45.80.  Analysts at Petromatrix said if WTI breaches this level, the next  support test will be at $43.  The U.S. crude inventory data could change momentum if it shows  another stock draw as an indicator that a supply glut is starting  to ease.  A Reuters poll showed analysts expected weekly U.S. commercial  oil stocks to have fallen for a seventh consecutive week, along  with a probable drop in gasoline stockpiles.   Investors awaited data on U.S. crude inventories, delayed due to  Monday's Independence Day holiday.  They forecast a 2.5-million-barrel draw in crude stocks and a  1.2-million-barrel fall in gasoline inventories.  The American Petroleum Institute (API) releases its data a day  later than normal on Wednesday at 4:30 p.m. EDT (2030 GMT), while  data from the U.S. government's Energy Information Administration  (EIA) is delayed to Thursday at 11 a.m. EDT (1500 GMT).  Britain's decision to exit the EU has caused concern about  economic growth in the region.  U.S. share prices extended losses shortly after they opened on  jitters over the Brexit's impact on global growth. The British  pound hit a 31-year low after three UK property funds were  suspended in the face of a rush of redemptions from investors  fearing a slump in British property values.    The Bank of  England also took steps to ensure British banks keep on  lending, by lowering the amount of capital banks must hold in  reserve, as UK business confidence plunged.