  Global benchmark Brent crude oil closed down nearly a dollar a  barrel Friday after a day of choppy trading despite expectations  of new investments in the new year, as strong mid-day rallies in  crude fizzled. Brent crude was down 91 cents at $56.42 a  barrel. Earlier, it touched a post-2009 low of $55.48, having  averaged around $110 a barrel between 2011 and 2013.  Front-month U.S.  crude for February delivery settled down 58 cents a  barrel at $52.69, before a steep 50-cent drop post-settlement. Read MoreLow oil good for Americans, not global  growth: Pro  The U.S. dollar index was 0.9 percent stronger on Friday. The  combination of the supply glut and the strong dollar has been a  "double whammy" for crude oil prices, said Walter Zimmerman,  chief technical analyst at United-ICAP.  "This is a long-term cyclical downtrend," Zimmerman said. "It's  going to take a while for prices to fall low enough to cut off  that excess production."  Low trading volume also made the market vulnerable to knee-jerk  reactions.  Saudi Arabia's King Abdullah bin Abdulaziz is suffering from  pneumonia and temporarily needed help to breathe through a tube  on Friday but the procedure was successful and his , the royal court said.  OPEC, the Organization of the  Petroleum Exporting Countries, which includes Saudi Arabia,  declined to restrict oil output in November despite pressure from  its member nations.   Iran's deputy foreign minister urged regional rival Saudi Arabia  on Thursday to take action to support oil prices, saying producer  countries across the Middle East will be hurt unless the price  slump is reversed.  In the United States, benchmark oil prices took some support from  data on Wednesday showing inventories fell by 1.8 million barrels  in the last week, but an increase of 2 million barrels at the  U.S. crude contract's delivery hub of Cushing, Oklahoma, kept  prices under pressure.  Traders were searching for a bottom in U.S. crude around the $52  a barrel mark, but Friday contained mostly sideways trading due  to thin volume, said Carl Larry, director of business development  at Frost & Sullivan.  "We're all waiting for the new money to come in next week,'' he  said. Weak China data   The jump in oil prices early on Friday was also capped by surveys  showing weak factory activity in China in December, which  underlined the challenges facing the country's manufacturers as  they fight rising costs and softening demand in the world's  second-largest economy.   China's official Purchasing Managers' Index (PMI) slipped to 50.1  in December from November's 50.3, with weaker-than-expected oil  demand growth in China last year contributing to the price  collapse.   Euro zone manufacturing also ended 2014 on a subdued note as  output, new orders and employment all recorded sluggish growth, a  survey showed on Friday.   Read MoreChina HSBC PMI slips, offering fresh  sign of slowdown  In the United States benchmark oil prices took some support from  data on Wednesday showing inventories fell by 1.8 million barrels  in the last week, but an increase of 2 million barrels at the  U.S. crude contract's delivery hub of Cushing, Oklahoma kept  gains in check. 