  The oil market looks set to rebalance earlier than expected as  OPEC members cut production, according to a report from UBS.OPEC oil output has reduced significantly since the  production-cut agreement made in November. Saudi Arabia has  reportedly cut production by 160,000 barrels per day (bpd), while  Kuwait and Qatar have both cut down 20,000 bpd.Production cuts elsewhere look set to speed up the pace at which  the oil market supply and demand will balance, leading UBS to  revise its forecasts for rebalancing from the second quarter of  2017 to the first."Incorporating the IEA's (International Energy Agency) baseline  demand revisions would, all else equal, bring forward our  projected rebalancing from 2Q17 to 1Q17," said UBS analysts Jon  Rigby, William Featherston and Joseph Head in the report out  today.  Russia is also complying with the agreed production cuts,  according to the country's energy minister Alexander Novak. He  claims Russia is cutting production twice as fast as originally  planned.  "We have seen the statement made by Saudi Arabia's minister  claiming the country lowered the output bigger than the agreement  reads," he told a news conference on Sunday, as reported by the  Russian news agency TASS.   "Russia observes its obligations quicker, and the cutting is  almost twice quicker than planned initially."  Once the oil market is balanced and the pace of inventory  drawdowns increases, UBS predicts oil prices could rise by $5 to  $10 per barrel.  Rising oil prices should encourage more  U.S. production, which may be needed to keep the market in  check.  "If U.S. supply is less responsive that we envisage, however,  then there is a risk the market overtightens, sending Brent above  our $60 to $80 per barrel incentive range and laying the  foundations for another price cycle."  Oil prices are lower today, weighed down by the prospects of  increased U.S. production. Prices for  are  down around 68 cents at $54.82, while West Texas Intermediate is  down 75 cents to $52.47.  Follow CNBC International on Twitter and Facebook. 