Crude futures jumped  on Wednesday as hopes for an agreement among exporters to freeze output underpinned the  market, although a persistent global oversupply and Iran's plans to boost  production pressured physical oil prices. Oil futures recovered from one-month lows to end up  in the previous session after the Kuwaiti governor for the Organization of the Petroleum  Exporting Countries (OPEC), Nawal Al-Fuzaia, said there were "positive  indications an agreement will be reached" on output during a producer meeting  scheduled for April 17 in Qatar.U.S. crude futures jumped around a  dollar, or 2.8 percent, to $36.87 per barrel at 0419 GMT. International Brent futures rose 1.8 percent at $38.55 a barrel. "Oil (futures) gained some momentum. The comment by  the Kuwait OPEC governor provided some support to prices," ANZ bank said, but warned that  investors would likely remain cautious ahead of the April 17 meeting.   An initial output freeze agreed in February has helped oil prices  rise to almost $38 a barrel from a 12-year low close to $27  plumbed earlier this year.   However, prices have fallen in recent days on doubts that a wider  deal will be reached, largely because Iran has so far said it has  no intention of slowing its production after crippling sanctions  against it were lifted in January.  Iranian Oil Minister Bijan Namdar Zanganeh said the country's  crude output would reach 4 million barrels per day (bpd) by March  2017, state television reported on Wednesday, with plans to  export 2.25 million bpd of those supplies.   That would be up from a little over 1 million bpd under the  sanctions and only slightly below pre-sanctions peaks of 2.5  million bpd.  With Iran's exports rising and other producers pledging to freeze  production near record-high levels, an agreement would do little  to address a global supply overhang that sees at least a million  barrels of crude produced every day in excess of demand.   The ample supplies were reflected in physical markets, with Abu  Dhabi cutting its March retroactive official selling price (OSP)  premium over benchmark Dubai crudes by 64 cents to $3.06 per  barrel.  This followed top exporter Saudi Arabia lowering its May Arab  Light crude OSP by 10 cents per barrel to a discount of $0.85 per  barrel to the Dubai average.      "We do not rule out additional (oil price) weakness in Q216  before renewed gains later in the year, as a rapid shift in  bullish speculative sentiment has outpaced fundamental tightening  of the physical market," BMI Research said. 