 Oil prices are up  sharply in Asian hours, extending hefty gains from the  previous sessions as the dollar index hit a seven-week low and on  continued rumors about a possible deal to cut abundant  supply.  Benchmark U.S. WTI light sweet crude prices were up  1.1 percent at $32.63 a barrel and European Brent crude is up 0.8 percent at $35.32 a barrel around noon in Asia as the U.S.  dollar index plunged after New York Fed President  reduced  expectations of the pace of future rate hikes. A  weaker dollar will make it cheaper to buy U.S. dollar denominated  commodities such as crude oil. WTI closed 8 percent higher while Brent ended 7 percent higher in the previous sessions. Meanwhile, speculation continue to swirl over  the likelihood of an emergency OPEC meeting and a deal between OPEC and non-OPEC  countries to cut production.  Analysts note that the slump in the dollar boosted oil prices  despite large increases in both U.S. crude oil and gasoline  stocks, but were cautious on calling a recovery.   "Crude oil prices are expected to remain under pressure in  the short term as a risk-off environment and further supply  growth keeps investor sentiment weak," said ANZ in a note  Thursday. Oil prices have fallen over 70 percent since  the summer of 2014 when their extended decline started  on the back of a supply surplus amid demand fears. Iran's return to the international  oil markets recently after international sanctions were lifted  also chilled market sentiment further, although it's been slow to  move the oil out of the country. Data from Israeli maritime data analytics company Windward showed Iranian floating storage fell just 5.4 million barrels since a landmark nuclear agreement was reached last July that led to the lifting of Western sanctions just recently. "It is not really surprising to see oil storage  remaining high even as sanctions  were lifted. It would likely take time before they find buyers  for their oil and to make matters worse, we are in a period of  abundant supply. It is not going to be easy to sell that much oil  in a short period of time," said Daniel Ang, a Singapore-based  analyst at Phillip Futures. OPEC countries produce about 30 million barrels  of crude oil a day. Singapore-based BMI Research said in a note  Thursday that it expects oil price to remain "low and volatile"  in the coming months amid global economic uncertainties and  broader financial market distress. "Oil will remain low and volatile in the coming  months, as global economic uncertainties and broader financial  markets distress drag on sentiment," said BMI Research, which is calling for the  average price of $39.50 a barrel for WTI and $40 a barrel for  Brent this year.The house added that the probability of a coordinated OPEC supply cut is "extremely low".  Follow CNBC International on Twitter and Facebook.