  Oil prices reversed their losses in post-settlement trade after  API data showed a bigger-than-expected draw on inventory.  U.S. crude stocks fell sharply last week, including a large  draw at the U.S. hub in Cushing, Oklahoma, while gasoline and  distillate inventories dropped, the industry group American  Petroleum Institute said.  U.S. oil for August delivery traded up 28 cents at $50.24 a barrel 4:35 EDT,  while Brent crude for August delivery traded up 35 cents at $50.95 a barrel.   Before the data was released, oil dipped on more speculation over  Britain's future in the European Union, then pared losses to  settle off session lows as a U.S. refinery outage triggered a  rebound in gasoline prices. Royal Dutch Shell  shut its gasoline-producing fluidic catalytic cracking unit at  the 316,600 barrel per day (bpd) Deer Park, Texas refinery.  Gasoline futures, which had been down, rebounded into positive  territory.  Crude futures pared losses as gasoline rebounded. Oil had dropped  as much as 2 percent earlier as investors took profits on a  two-day rally fed by speculation that Britain would not leave the  European Union after a referendum this Thursday.  "The Deer Park news was certainly supportive to the market," said  David Thompson, executive vice-president at Washington-based  commodities broker Powerhouse. "The evolving 'stay' view for  Britain in the EU and mounting troubles for Venezuela were other  positives for oil."  Brent  crude futures' front-month, August, settled down 3 cents  at $50.62 a barrel, after falling more than $1 to a session low  of $49.46. The contract had gained 7 percent in the last two  sessions.  U.S. crude's expiring  July front-month contract closed down 52 cents, or 1 percent, at  $48.85 a barrel, versus a session low at $48.16. The more  actively-traded August futures, the new front month from Wednesday,  settled down 11 cents at $49.85.   Oil investors worried about the possibility of global crude  supplies tightening from the economic crisis in Venezuela. Output  from Venezuela, which sits atop the world's biggest oil reserves,  was 2.37 million barrels per day (bpd) in May, down 5 percent  from April and 11 percent from last year's average, according to  OPEC data.   Crude futures also got brief support from news that rebels  sabotaging Nigeria's crude exports had denied agreeing to a  one-month ceasefire.   The Niger Delta Avengers' denial came after government officials  told Reuters a truce had been struck with the group last week  after talks involving Nigeria's oil minister, community groups  and state governors in the Niger Delta, which produces most of  the country's crude.   Investors will watch for weekly U.S. crude inventory data due  from trade group American Petroleum Institute at 4:30 p.m. EDT  (2030 GMT).   An updated Reuters poll forecast that U.S. crude stockpiles fell  1.7 million barrels last week, declining a fifth week in a row.  The U.S. government will issue official inventory data on  Wednesday. — CNBC's Tom DiChristopher contributed to this  report.