 Crude  oil prices jumped at the Asian open on Monday after the Organization  of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and  non-member producers agreed on a deal at the weekend to cut output to ease a  global supply glut.  Benchmark U.S. West Texas Intermediate rose as much as 5.8 percent to 54.51 a barrel while European Brent spiked 6.6 percent to $57.89 a barrel. At 10.30 a.m. SIN/HK time, WTI and  Brent were both up over 4 percent to $53.84 and $56.61 a barrel respectively.  On Saturday, producers from outside OPEC  agreed to reduce output by 558,000 barrels a day, the  largest-ever contribution by non-OPEC countries. Russia has  pledged to cut most among the non-OPEC countries at 300,000  barrels a day. OPEC had previously agreed to slash output by 1.2 million  barrels per day from Jan. 1, with top exporter Saudi Arabia cutting  as much as 486,000 barrels a day.    ANZ commodity strategist Daniel Hynes said full compliance of  the 1.7 million barrels a day cut from the market will negate the  impact of any increase from the U.S. in the short-term, as the  U.S. has cut just 800,000 barrels a day in the last 12  months.   This would "go a long way in pushing the market into deficit"  as crude oil stock draw down accelerates in the first half of  2017, he told CNBC's "Squawk Box".  Hynes said oil prices could move into the mid-$60 a barrel  level in the first quarter of 2017.  The joint output cut will be a "temporary fix", but proves OPEC  and non-OPEC members are ready to support the market when prices  fall, said Alliance Securities chief investment officer, Jonathan  Barratt.   Shale producers will likely be ramping up production when crude  oil prices hit $60 a barrel, putting renewed pressure on crude  oil prices, he added to CNBC's "The Rundown".  He added he was optimistic on compliance by Russia.  "This is not a deal they just sign off and forget. It's a  deal they are committed to and they will work to make sure they  adhere to the actual goal set in the agreement," Barratt said,  adding that it was in Russia's own interest to get oil prices to  stabilize.Hynes concurred with this view."The rhetoric is so strong  this time; and economic and financial constraints are really pushing (the need for) compliance to the limit," said Hynes.  Follow CNBC International on Twitter and Facebook.