  U.S. crude rallied for a third consecutive day Monday, posting  its best three-day gain in 25 years, but traders may not have  seen the last of $30 oil, Anthony Grisanti, president of GRZ  Energy, said.  "We went from being oversold to being overbought in a matter of  three days," he told CNBC's "Closing Bell."  The October contract for U.S. crude settled 8.8 percent higher at  $49.20 on Monday, fueled by government data that showed U.S. crude  production declined in June and signs that OPEC may be willing to  work with other producers to stabilize oil prices. Read More Oil ends up  8.8%, at $49.20 a barrel; highest since July 21  "Does this rally have legs?" Grisanti asked. "I'm not so sure  about that because we still have a huge oversupply in crude oil  around the world."  A sustained climb that brings U.S. crude back to $50 to $55 per  barrel will spur U.S. shale oil drillers to bring new or idled  production online, exasperating oversupply, Grisanti said. Unlike  deep-water drilling, it take just a few weeks and a few million  dollars to start up U.S. shale production, he said.  For the time being, an article published by OPEC on Monday saying  the cartel is concerned about oil price pressure should only be  taken as chatter, Grisanti said.  "As the organization has stressed on numerous occasions, it  stands ready to talk to all other producers. But this has to be  on a level playing field. OPEC will protect its own interests,"  the group said in a bulletin.  Read More  Grisanti noted that Saudi Arabia, the world's No. 1 oil exporter,  had recently exceeded its quota of 30 million barrels per day  last month, producing 31.5 million bpd in  July.  "They can't even get their own production under control, so I  don't know how they're going to approach the rest of the world,  especially the frackers in the U.S. that they declared war on,"  he said, referring to American oil producers who utilize  hydraulic fracturing, a method of releasing hydrocarbons from  shale rock by pumping water, chemicals and sand underground.  Oil futures had already been under pressure last fall when OPEC  decided in November to maintain production levels and defend  market share rather than cut output to prop up prices. That  decision, aimed at forcing U.S. drillers to balance the market by  turning off the tap, sent the cost of crude sharply lower.  OPEC meets Dec. 4, at which point the group will decide whether  to scale back production or stay the course.  "I don't expect a production cut because it seems at this point  they've weathered the worst part of it," Grisanti said. "At the  same time ... I expect oil to test that $30 handle again."