  The U.S. presidential race is capturing the interest of every  nation as onlookers look to see who becomes the next "leader of  the free world."  According to Bob McNally, president of consulting firm Rapidan  Group, countries in the oil-producing Middle East, including  Saudi Arabia, are hoping for Hillary Clinton to become  president.   The presidential election is scheduled for early November and the two  leading contenders are viewed as Donald Trump, the presumptive  Republican nominee, and Clinton, front-runner for the  Democratic nomination.   "It is no secret that the Saudis and other Gulf Sunni powers are  rooting for Mrs. Clinton," McNally told CNBC from Vienna ahead of  Thursday's widely eyed OPEC meeting.   "(There is) a lot of concern and anxiety about what Donald Trump  would mean," he said.   McNally added that President Barack Obama might as well be out of  office already, describing his administration as "very much a  lame duck."  Trump has criticized Saudi Arabia in the past, saying the U.S.  should stop buying oil from the kingdom if it does not help fight  so-called Islamic State militants.Trump advisor and North Dakota Republican congressman Kevin Cramer recently urged the billionaire businessman to criticize OPEC  — of which Saudi Arabia is the de facto leader  —for manipulating oil prices.  "We have to look at the global playing field and see which of our  partners – OPEC, Iran, Russia – are playing fair in the  global marketplace," Cramer advised Trump, according to a Reuters  article citing the congressman.    Trump laid out his energy plan for the U.S. in a speech at an oil  conference in North Dakota last week. His plan involves complete  independence from overseas oil imports, less regulation and more  drilling.  "America's incredible energy potential remains untapped. It's a  wound that is totally self-inflicted," he said, according to  media reports.   Trump also said he would approve the Keystone XL, a proposed oil  pipeline in Canada and the U.S. that has been blocked by Obama,  but would demand a cut of any profit Canada made.