  Oil futures settled nearly 7 percent lower on Wednesday after  government data showed the largest weekly increase in U.S. crude  inventories since 2001 and a day after Saudi Arabia reported  record production in March. U.S. May crude closed down  $3.56, or 6.6 percent, at $50.42 a barrel. The commodity has  erased 2015's gains and is now down 5.4 percent on the year. Meanwhile, Brent May  crude was down $3.30 at $56.90 a barrel.   U.S. crude oil inventories surged 10.95 million barrels to a  record 482.39 million in the week to April 3, the Energy  Information Administration (EIA) said in its weekly report.  A Reuters survey of analysts had yielded a forecast for a build  of 3.4 million barrels. Read MoreShell's BG deal: The biggest oil price  bet yet?  "The report is very bearish with the large crude oil inventory  build and the somewhat surprising rise in gasoline inventories,"  said John Kilduff, partner at Again Capital LLC in New York.  Crude oil inventories at the Cushing, Oklahoma, storage hub and  delivery point for the U.S. crude contract rose by 1.2 million  barrels, the EIA said, a much bigger jump than  expected.  U.S. crude oil imports rose by 869,000 barrels per day (bpd) to 7.7  million bpd. Read More Shell-BG deal is just the  start of energy M&A: Analyst  Gasoline inventories rose 817,000 barrels, compared with  analysts' expectations for a 1 million barrel drop, as refiners  increased capacity utilization.  The reported build sent U.S. RBOB gasoline futures went into  sharp retreat, down 9.20 cents at $1.7689 a gallon.  The EIA data arrived a day after Saudi oil minister Ali al-Naimi  said that Saudi Arabia's output would likely remain around 10  million bpd after posting a record high of 10.3 million bpd in  March.  Naimi also said the kingdom stood ready to "improve" prices but  only if producers outside the Organization of the Petroleum  Exporting Countries joined the effort. Read MoreIran piles pressure on US with China  oil talks  Iraq and Libya also increased their output for March, further  adding to OPEC production, which came to about 31.5 million bpd  last month, according to analyst Olivier Jakob at Swiss-based  Petromatrix.  "With such a level of OPEC production it will be difficult to  escape large stock-builds throughout the year," he said in a  note.