  U.S. crude futures contracts settled lower on Tuesday as traders  looked beyond price defense attempts by Russia and Venezuela and  toward Saudi Arabia and OPEC for fresh leads on whether the  cartel will cut production when it meets later this month.  Saudi Arabia, the most powerful member of the Organization of  Petroleum Exporting Countries and the world's No. 1 oil exporter,  raised crude shipments in September, data showed on Tuesday,  despite signs of an oversupplied market.  The Saudi data weighed on sentiment, helping push U.S. crude  prices to near the four-year lows they hit on Friday.   Front-month U.S.  crude settled $1.03 lower, or 1.4 percent, at $74.61 a barrel, after hitting a session low of  $74.23 earlier. Benchmark  was down for a sixth session, 69  cents lower at $78.62 after falling as low as $78.21.  Read MoreCracks widen at OPEC as oil prices  tumble  Crude prices fell even after U.S. stockpiles were forecast to  have dropped by 1.2 million barrels last week, according to a  Reuters survey.  OPEC will meet in Vienna on Nov. 27. Venezuela and Russia are  among oil exporters trying to get the cartel to cut output and  boost prices following Brent's 30 percent fall since June.  "We're trading every OPEC headline now, but it's what the Saudis  say, or don't, that will make a difference over the next nine  days, barring what OPEC's stand itself is as a group," said  Joseph Posillico, senior vice president of energy futures at  Jefferies LLC in New York. Read MorePrivate equity bets on energy  'revolution'—in oil and gas  Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro said Monday a special global  meeting on oil price defense was being planned "very soon." The  head of Russia's state-backed oil company, Rosneft, is scheduled  to fly to Vienna two days before the OPEC meeting.  The Saudis haven't agreed to a cut yet, and Venezuela is a less  influential OPEC member than Saudi Arabia. Russia, a big oil  producer but not an OPEC member, has failed in previous attempts  to persuade the cartel to cut production.  Goldman Sachs said in a research note dated Nov. 17 that Brent  may need to go as low as $60 to slow production if OPEC does not  agree to a cut.  Read MoreWhy oil is more likely to test $50 than  $100 again next year CNBC contributed to this report.