  The Baltic Dry Index (BDI), an indicator of the shipping rates  for bulk commodities, climbed 50 percent over the course of  November, but the OPEC deal to reduce oil production and other  issues could prove harmful to the industry, according to experts.Earlier in the week, members of OPEC agreed to reduce oil  production in order to reduce oversupply. The decision was great  news for oil prices and commodity stocks, but may prove to be a  big negative for the shipping tanker industry, according to Rahul  Kapoor, director of Drewry Financial Research Services."Shipping is a volume game, so higher OPEC production has  supported the tanker rates over the past few years," Kapoor said."We don't have the numbers yet, we don't know how much has been  cut and we'll have to look at the compliance, but if all were to  come true in terms of cuts, this would be negative for the  market."  Following the announcement on Wednesday that an OPEC deal would  be achieved, shares in several tanker companies fell. For  instance, shares in Belgium-based crude oil shipping company  Euronav have fallen around 9 percent since Wednesday morning, and  shares in KNOT Offshore partners are down around 2.3  percent.   Despite this, rates in the shipping industry have been improving  in recent months.  The BDI hit an all-time low of 290 in February, but has gradually  recovered due to growing demand. The index shot up from around  830 at the start of November to around 1,200 points by the start  of December.   This movement was driven by the capesize segment of the BDI  (these are the largest ships used for transporting coal and other  raw materials), explained Kapoor.  "That had a pretty big move, basically the rates went up from  around $5,000 (per day to hire a vessel) to all the way up to  $15,000 to $18,000. That's why the move in the Baltic Dry Index  looks very amplified," he told CNBC during a phone  interview.  Shipping rates have been recovering for the last six months as  China's economy stabilized, according to Kapoor. Year-to-date,  the index is up around 150 percent.  "At the start of the year, we were penciling in a very, very  negative demand growth from China, but demand growth has been  pretty good from the last few quarters."  However, problems remain for shipping and rates are still  historically low, according to Zvi Schreiber, CEO of freight rate  database Freightos.  "Despite the recent uptick in maritime prices, overcapacity  continues to impact carriers; 2016 prices were close to 50  percent lower than 2014 ocean prices," he told CNBC via  email.  "Acquisitions by the carriers with large enough war chests to  weather the storm is inevitable but fewer ship owners doesn't  mean fewer ships or less capacity. It may bring a brief respite  but the underlying overcapacity has not changed and is in fact  getting worse," Schreiber said.  Follow CNBC International on Twitter and Facebook. 