Russia and Saudi Arabia said they expect OPEC and non-OPEC  producers to reach an agreement on Saturday to curtail oil output  and prop up prices in the first such joint move since 2001.   "We have a deal already. We are just putting the final touches.  Everything is good!" Khalid al-Falih, energy minister of OPEC's  de facto leader and top oil exporter Saudi Arabia, told  reporters.   Russian Energy Minister Alexander Novak, speaking as he joined a  breakfast with OPEC and non-OPEC ministers in Vienna, said: "I  don't see such risks (of a deal failing)."    The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries will meet  producers from outside the group later in the day, hoping  non-OPEC will commit to cutting 600,000 barrels per day after its  own members agreed a reduction of 1.2 million barrels per day last week.     OPEC Secretary-General Mohammed Barkindo said he expected 12  non-OPEC countries to sign a declaration with the organisation  and fully contribute to cuts of 600,000 bpd or more.   "This is a very historic meeting ... This will boost the global  economy and will help some OECD countries to reach their  inflation targets," Barkindo told reporters, referring to the  Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, which  groups most of the world's richest economies.   OPEC sources said non-OPEC Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, Oman, Mexico,  Russia, Sudan, South Sudan, Bahrain and Malaysia would attend the  meeting. Bolivia may also attend and Barkindo said Brunei had  sent its commitments but would not be present.   Many non-OPEC countries such as Mexico and Azerbaijan face a  natural drop in oil production and several OPEC ministers going  into the breakfast said the discussions would focus on whether  those declines should be counted as contributions.   On Friday, Saudi Arabia told its U.S. and European customers it  would reduce oil deliveries from January, signalling it had  already started implementing cuts.    OPEC producers Iraq and Kuwait have also told buyers of their  crude about planned reductions.   From the non-OPEC camp, so far only top global oil producer  Russia and Oman have pledged cuts, with OPEC and non-OPEC sources  saying Mexico could contribute as much as 150,000 barrels per day.    In contrast, Kazakhstan plans to boost output in 2017 as it  launches the long-delayed Kashagan project.   Follow CNBC International on Twitter and Facebook.