  Further depreciation in emerging market currencies could  seriously dent oil demand in large emerging economics, the  Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) warned  on Wednesday.  In its Monthly Oil Market Report, OPEC said the sell-off in  emerging market currencies has only "slightly affected" crude oil  prices to date, but stressed that further volatility could hit  demand in the region.  "Emerging economies have been the main driver of oil demand  growth in past year," the report found.  (Read more: Easy with the taper; we need growth: OPEC)  "While the major OECD economies are experiencing stronger GDP  (gross domestic product) growth this year and are forecast to  compensate for the shortfall of the emerging and developing  economies, the outcome of the currency depreciation in the large  emerging economies could potentially have a slowing effect on  demand growth, particularly if the volatility in the currency  market - causing second-round effects – continues," the  organization said.  The comments come after a difficult start to the year for  emerging market currencies, which have experienced significant  volatility amid ongoing concerns about some countries'  fundamentals and the speed at which the U.S. Federal Reserve will  tapering off its bond-buying program.  OPEC said 2014 world oil demand growth was expected to increase  to around 1.1 million barrels per day (bpd)– a upward  revision of 50,000 bpd on the previous month.   (Read more: OPEC cuts  output closer to 2014 demand)  But it added that this improvement in world oil demand would  "remain below potential growth, as rising economic activities  counterbalance the decline in oil intensity."  Main crude oil futures declined in January on worries over the  outlook for emerging economies and Fed tapering.   The value of OPEC's so-called reference basket - a measure of the  prices of various grades of oil - fell by almost $3 to $104.71/b  in January amid bearish sentiment, the cartel said.   (Read more: Shell shock: Oil giant warns of 'significantly lower'  profit)  However, severe weather conditions in the U.S. prompted a spike  in heating-fuel demand, strengthening product markets in the  country.  —By CNBC's Jenny Cosgrave: Follow her on  Twitter @jenny_cosgrave