  Oil analysts mostly expect OPEC to strike a deal to curb  production by Nov. 30 and support prices, though a wildcard is the impact of proposed industry-friendly policies by President-elect Donald Trump.  About three-quarters of the participants in the latest CNBC Oil  Survey said they believed the Nov. 30 OPEC meeting in Vienna will finalize a proposal reached in late September to cut  production to 32.5 million to 33 million barrels a day from around 33.6 million barrels now.  But the 15 analysts and traders surveyed were divided on Trump's impact on  oil prices, with 29.4 percent saying his election would  move prices higher. But 23.5 percent said prices could fall,  while the same percentage suggested no effect. Then there were  another 23.5 percent who said they still don't know what impact  Trump's energy policies may produce. Trump endorses the idea of  more drilling on federal land and has vowed to remove some  regulation on fracking.    Two-thirds of the survey respondents said if OPEC agrees to cut  production, it will have to do more than the 750,000-barrel-a-day  cut suggested in September in order to have an impact on prices.  If it does agrees to change policy, it will be a significant  break from its strategy to let the market set prices, established  at its November 2014 meeting. That strategy ended up sending oil  prices sharply lower, as producers kept pumping more and more  oil.  "Just like Thanksgiving 2014 OPEC meeting was a catalyst for  global oil markets (to the downside), the November 2016 meeting  will also be a catalyst, but this time to the upside," Dan  Pickering, co-president of Tudor Pickering, said in a note.  "While it will be noisy leading into the OPEC meeting at the end  of November, there will be a coordinated action that will  support/lift oil prices. This will accelerate the ongoing  tightening of the global oil supply/demand balance."   Some industry experts believe OPEC will keep pumping at higher  levels even with a deal, and the price may not benefit that much.  "OPEC will likely announce an agreement. Maintenance may give  illusion of compliance to deal. OPEC output will rise in Q1  2017," said Kyle Cooper of IAF Advisors.  Fifty-three percent of  those surveyed said they expect West  Texas Intermediate oil prices to move higher, to $50 to $59 at  the end of the year, but 41.2 percent expected prices to stay in  the $40s. Another 5.9 percent said they see WTI in the  $30s.   "While OPEC may announce a freeze and a cut in production at the  end of November, there has been a free-for-all among its members  to produce as much as possible since the September freeze  announcement," said Andy Lipow, president of Lipow Oil  Associates. "I think that in spite of whatever agreement comes  out of Vienna at the end of the month, the market will be  skeptical that OPEC can bring the self-discipline to its members  to actually enact a substantial production cut."   Nearly two-thirds of the respondents said the oil market is  rebalancing but more slowly than expected, and a third say it is  not yet rebalancing and supply continues to be greater than  demand. About three-quarters said they see a  slight rise in demand next year, but 22 percent see a significant  pickup.  The majority — about 65 percent — expect prices to  be $50 to $59 per barrel by the middle of next year, while 23.5  percent expect WTI to be $40 to $49. About 12  percent expected $60 to $69 next year and half  of those see it rising over $70 per barrel.  Eight-two percent said the rising dollar will pressure oil. The  top concern for the market is supply, with 47 percent citing that  as a key issue. Twenty-nine percent point to OPEC, while  11.8 percent point to geopolitics. Another 5.9 percent pointed to  domestic politics and 5.9 percent pointed to demand.  "The biggest potential impact of Trump's presidency on the oil  markets may well be geopolitics, rather than energy or  environmental policy. Specifically, if he does tear up the  Iran nuclear deal and — more to the point — unilaterally reimpose US financial and banking sanctions on Iran, that would once again  reduce Iran's crude exports by making it very difficult for  customers to pay Iran," wrote Michael Wittner, Societe Generale  global head of oil research.