  OPEC crude oil production hit an eight-year peak in July, but may  fall this month amid turmoil in major member countries, UBS said  on Tuesday.   OPEC output rose by 150,000 barrels per day (kb/d) to 33.39  million barrels per day (mb/d) last month, as Saudi Arabia pushed  its production to a new high and Iraq pumped more, according to  the International Energy Agency.   However, UBS forecasts a drop in Iraqi oil production following  militant attacks at the Bai Hassan field in northern Iraq on July  31.   The bank also expects a decline in output from Nigeria, since  militant activity restarted there, and no increase in Libyan  production, as tension in Zuwetina in north-eastern Libya has  made it difficult to reopen the country's eastern ports.   UBS sees front-month WTI crude oil averaging $43.81  per barrel in 2016 and $57.00 a barrel in 2017. That is narrowly  above consensus forecasts for $43.30 this year and $54.25 next  and further above BNP Paribas predictions for $40 and $50,  respectively.   OPEC has been in focus this month following speculation that some  members were once again trying to engineer a production freeze  between OPEC and non-OPEC members like Russia. The rumor was  fueled by the announcement that an informal meeting of OPEC  ministers will take place in September.   The suggestion helped boost crude prices, with WTI futures for  September 10 percent higher on the month, just below $46 per  barrel on Tuesday.   However, UBS — and many other analysts — does not  expect a freeze.   "Our view is that agreeing a freeze is likely just as difficult  as in April (while Iran is approaching pre-sanctions output,  Libyan and Nigerian production remains depressed), it's arguably  not as needed … and likely has little effect on actual  market balances, with most of OPEC running flat out and Saudi  output seasonally ramping down by September after peak summer  demand," UBS analyst, Jon Rigby, said in a report on  Tuesday.   "Experience would suggest to all market participants that any  meeting will likely be a complete non-event, and the price  reaction likely indicates current market positioning rather than  any genuinely meaningful expectation."  Follow CNBC International on Twitter and Facebook.