Over 97% of Belarus connected to gas supply network 
30082019

0904
Natural GasMore than 97% of Belarus is connected to the gas supply network, Belarus' Energy Minister Viktor Karankevich told the media on 29 August during a press tour to mark Oil, Gas and Fuel Industry Workers Day, BelTA has learned."At present, the connection to the LNG supply network in the country exceeds 97%. The total length of the gas transportation system is about 62 000 km. All regional centers and cities have access to the central gas supply network. Among gas consumers are 3.7 million households and some 15,000 organizations in the real economic sector," Viktor Karankevich said.
 
The peat sector plays an important role for the country's economy as well. Every year peat organizations that make part of the Energy Ministry system produce about 2.5 million tonnes of peat which is used to make fuel and products for agriculture. More than 1 million tonnes of fuel peat is consumed domestically, which enables the country to replace about 450 million cu m of natural gas worth some $65 million.
 
The country also continues to increase the export of its peat products. In H1 2019, the country earned about $6 million on peat exports. According to Viktor Karankevich, works are regularly conducted in both gas and peat sectors to upgrade production and implement new technologies.
Source: neftegaz.ru
"At present, the connection to the LNG supply network in the country exceeds 97%. The total length of the gas transportation system is about 62 000 km. All regional centers and cities have access to the central gas supply network. Among gas consumers are 3.7 million households and some 15,000 organizations in the real economic sector," Viktor Karankevich said. The peat sector plays an important role for the country's economy as well. Every year peat organizations that make part of the Energy Ministry system produce about 2.5 million tonnes of peat which is used to make fuel and products for agriculture. More than 1 million tonnes of fuel peat is consumed domestically, which enables the country to replace about 450 million cu m of natural gas worth some $65 million. The country also continues to increase the export of its peat products. In H1 2019, the country earned about $6 million on peat exports. According to Viktor Karankevich, works are regularly conducted in both gas and peat sectors to upgrade production and implement new technologies.Source: neftegaz.ru