PGNiG to invest in hydrogen technologies 
28112018

0923
HydroPolish PGNiG launched a research and development project called ELIZA. In the future, the company wants to generate hydrogen through electrolysis relying on renewable energy sources and then inject it into gas storage facilities. This has been identified as one of the business areas holding the greatest growth potential for the entire Group.<<The PGNiG Group has capabilities and a long track record in the distribution, storage and use of natural gas. It also intends to become a leader in the development of hydrogen technologies in Poland,>> says Lukasz Kroplewski, Vice President of the PGNiG Management Board.
 
<<Taking a long-term perspective, hydrogen is the future of the global energy sector. The only by-product of hydrogen combustion is steam, which makes it a truly green fuel. Burning a mixture of natural gas and hydrogen produces less emissions of carbon dioxide. Therefore, such fuel is more environmentally friendly and emission charges are lower,>> Mr Kroplewski adds.
 
In R&D Foresight analyses prepared by the PGNiG Research and Development Department, hydrogen-related projects have been identified among business areas holding the greatest growth potential for the entire Group.
 
As part of its hydrogen projects PGNiG plans to draw on the experience of Japan, the world's leader in the development of hydrogen technologies, and Japanese companies, which have already implemented a number of hydrogen-based solutions.
Source: neftegaz.ru
<<The PGNiG Group has capabilities and a long track record in the distribution, storage and use of natural gas. It also intends to become a leader in the development of hydrogen technologies in Poland,>> says Lukasz Kroplewski, Vice President of the PGNiG Management Board. <<Taking a long-term perspective, hydrogen is the future of the global energy sector. The only by-product of hydrogen combustion is steam, which makes it a truly green fuel. Burning a mixture of natural gas and hydrogen produces less emissions of carbon dioxide. Therefore, such fuel is more environmentally friendly and emission charges are lower,>> Mr Kroplewski adds. In R&D Foresight analyses prepared by the PGNiG Research and Development Department, hydrogen-related projects have been identified among business areas holding the greatest growth potential for the entire Group. As part of its hydrogen projects PGNiG plans to draw on the experience of Japan, the world's leader in the development of hydrogen technologies, and Japanese companies, which have already implemented a number of hydrogen-based solutions.Source: neftegaz.ru