Planning permit issued to 110-MW Aussie solar project 
26072019

0941
SolarRegulators in New South Wales, the southeastern Aussie state, have granted conditional approval to a project calling for the construction of a 110-MW solar park.The state's Independent Planning Commission's decision was awarded on Thursday, following a site inspection and a public meeting. The so-called Orange Grove Solar Farm has been allocated a "state significant development" status by the Department of Planning, Industry and Environment.
 
The AUD-94-million (USD 65.2m/EUR 58.5m) project, proposed by Overland Sun Farming Pty Ltd, envisages the installation of around 330,000 single-axis solar tracking panels and up to 40 inverters at a site near the town of Gunnedah. The plant, once completed, is expected to generate enough electricity to supply up to 41,000 homes annually.
 
According to the Planning Commission, the plan will not have "significant impact on adjacent properties" and will not have a negative effect on the landscape and the agricultural productivity of the land. Overall, the project "achieves a reasonable balance between maximising the use of the solar resource and managing potential impacts on the environment and on surrounding landowners," the decision says. The set conditions include environmental, performance and monitoring measures.
Source: renewablesnow.com
The state's Independent Planning Commission's decision was awarded on Thursday, following a site inspection and a public meeting. The so-called Orange Grove Solar Farm has been allocated a "state significant development" status by the Department of Planning, Industry and Environment. The AUD-94-million (USD 65.2m/EUR 58.5m) project, proposed by Overland Sun Farming Pty Ltd, envisages the installation of around 330,000 single-axis solar tracking panels and up to 40 inverters at a site near the town of Gunnedah. The plant, once completed, is expected to generate enough electricity to supply up to 41,000 homes annually. According to the Planning Commission, the plan will not have "significant impact on adjacent properties" and will not have a negative effect on the landscape and the agricultural productivity of the land. Overall, the project "achieves a reasonable balance between maximising the use of the solar resource and managing potential impacts on the environment and on surrounding landowners," the decision says. The set conditions include environmental, performance and monitoring measures.
Source: renewablesnow.com