Poland needs nuclear power, explains energy minister 
31102018

0929
NuclearPolish Energy Minister Krzysztof Tchorzewski has made the case for the country to adopt nuclear power in an opinion piece published in online magazine Wszystko Co Najwazniejsze.The minister explained how such a policy would boost investment in Polish engineering know-how and a knowledge-based economy.
 
Poland produces most of its electricity from coal and imported gas, and Tchorzewski has warned that the country will not meet European Union carbon emissions reduction targets unless it revives plans to build a nuclear power plant. In 1990, coal-fired power plants accounted for 98% of electricity in Poland. Today its share is 80%.
 
Poland's membership of the European Union and the global approach to climate protection have a "natural influence" on Polish coal-based energy generation, he wrote, and the winter package - which limits investing in high-emission energy sources due to Poland's aging coal-fired power plants - "reduces room for manoeuvre" in choosing its energy strategy.

There are 23 nuclear power units within a 300km radius of Poland, he noted, including 14 in the Visegrad Group alone. The Visegrad Group, or V4, is a cultural and political alliance of four Central European states - the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland and Slovakia, that are members of the European Union. Poland is the only V4 country that does not have nuclear power in its energy mix, he wrote.
 
The Polish Energy Ministry has prepared an amendment to the Nuclear Energy Programme, which he said will be submitted to the Council of Ministers by the end of this year.
Source: world-nuclear-news.org
The minister explained how such a policy would boost investment in Polish engineering know-how and a knowledge-based economy. Poland produces most of its electricity from coal and imported gas, and Tchorzewski has warned that the country will not meet European Union carbon emissions reduction targets unless it revives plans to build a nuclear power plant. In 1990, coal-fired power plants accounted for 98% of electricity in Poland. Today its share is 80%. Poland's membership of the European Union and the global approach to climate protection have a "natural influence" on Polish coal-based energy generation, he wrote, and the winter package - which limits investing in high-emission energy sources due to Poland's aging coal-fired power plants - "reduces room for manoeuvre" in choosing its energy strategy.
There are 23 nuclear power units within a 300km radius of Poland, he noted, including 14 in the Visegrad Group alone. The Visegrad Group, or V4, is a cultural and political alliance of four Central European states - the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland and Slovakia, that are members of the European Union. Poland is the only V4 country that does not have nuclear power in its energy mix, he wrote. The Polish Energy Ministry has prepared an amendment to the Nuclear Energy Programme, which he said will be submitted to the Council of Ministers by the end of this year.Source: world-nuclear-news.org