Poland Cuts Russian Oil Import Dependence 
07112018

0857
Energy MarketPoland is reducing its dependence on imports from Russia but at a cost 
Last year Poland's imports of Russian oil dropped to their lowest level since 2005, according to a report by Poland's central bank published on Tuesday. To diversify oil suppliers Poland is paying higher costs because Russian oil prices averaged $59.70 a barrel in December 2017, compared to $60.20 per barrel for oil from Kazakhstan and $65.60 per barrel for U.S. oil.
 
In 2017, the share of Russian oil in Polish imports dropped to 76 percent, compared to 96 percent back in 2012. Refiners in Poland process mostly Russian oil via pipelines, but in 2017, every third barrel of oil that Poland imported was shipped.

PKN Orlen and Lotos, Poland's state-run refiners, increased purchases of non-Russian oil last year. In 2016 PKN Orlen signed a long-term supply contract with Saudi Aramco with provisions for automatic annual renewal, with which the Saudi oil giant entered the Baltic oil supply market. Two weeks ago, PKN Orlen said that it would boost purchases of Saudi Arabia's Extra Light by 100,000 tons to 300,000 tons per month.
 
Another Polish refiner, Lotos, signed in December 2017 a forward contract for the supply of U.S. oil to its refinery in Gdansk. Under the contract, at least five U.S. oil cargoes will be delivered by sea this year. The Lotos refinery said that it is importing oil from new sources like Iran, Saudi Arabia, Latin America, and North and West Africa.
 
Energy Minister Krzysztof Tchorzewski stated that: "The contract will certainly contribute to building Poland's energy independence and strengthening its energy security. Consistent diversification of energy supply sources is one of the priorities of the Ministry of Energy's policy, and business decisions made by state-owned companies are a vital element of its implementation."
Source: dealoil.co.uk
 Last year Poland's imports of Russian oil dropped to their lowest level since 2005, according to a report by Poland's central bank published on Tuesday. To diversify oil suppliers Poland is paying higher costs because Russian oil prices averaged $59.70 a barrel in December 2017, compared to $60.20 per barrel for oil from Kazakhstan and $65.60 per barrel for U.S. oil. In 2017, the share of Russian oil in Polish imports dropped to 76 percent, compared to 96 percent back in 2012. Refiners in Poland process mostly Russian oil via pipelines, but in 2017, every third barrel of oil that Poland imported was shipped.
PKN Orlen and Lotos, Poland's state-run refiners, increased purchases of non-Russian oil last year. In 2016 PKN Orlen signed a long-term supply contract with Saudi Aramco with provisions for automatic annual renewal, with which the Saudi oil giant entered the Baltic oil supply market. Two weeks ago, PKN Orlen said that it would boost purchases of Saudi Arabia's Extra Light by 100,000 tons to 300,000 tons per month. Another Polish refiner, Lotos, signed in December 2017 a forward contract for the supply of U.S. oil to its refinery in Gdansk. Under the contract, at least five U.S. oil cargoes will be delivered by sea this year. The Lotos refinery said that it is importing oil from new sources like Iran, Saudi Arabia, Latin America, and North and West Africa. Energy Minister Krzysztof Tchorzewski stated that: "The contract will certainly contribute to building Poland's energy independence and strengthening its energy security. Consistent diversification of energy supply sources is one of the priorities of the Ministry of Energy's policy, and business decisions made by state-owned companies are a vital element of its implementation."Source: dealoil.co.uk