  The world will never again see the price of oil at $100 per barrel, one of  Saudi Arabia's biggest investors told CNBC on Friday.  Prince Alwaleed Bin Talal, chairman of  Kingdom Holdings, spoke with "Squawk on the Street" following the death of his  uncle, King Abdullah. While he admitted that his country등hich  derives 90 percent of its budget from oil들s feeling the  pain of the commodity's collapse, he predicted that Saudi Arabia  would not be the first to blink.  He said that a "confluence of events" have led to the fall in  oil's price, not드s some have suggested드 Saudi plot to  harm America's revitalized energy industry. Read MoreIt's downhill for US after Saudi king  dies: Kilduff  "I can assure you that Saudi Arabia is not using the oil price  right now to impact the fracking industry in the United States,"  he said, adding that "there's an oversupply and demand is not so  high."  The lack of balance between oil's supply and demand means the  road back to $60-$70 range will be "not that easy, not that  quick," the prince said, adding that markets may not even have found the bottom yet.  Given this weakness in oil's price, Alwaleed admitted that the  global strength of OPEC has weakened.  "I would not say that OPEC is dead, but I think the impact of  OPEC as it was years ago is not the same for sure today," he  said.  He added that "there's a game of who should cut production  first" between members of the oil cartel and non-OPEC nations.  "Eventually there's no doubt that some countries have to blink  and reduce their production. ... I don't see Saudi Arabia or the  OPEC countries blinking," he said. Read MoreSaudi oil policy 'just took turn for  the worse'  Alwaleed said he thought oil's price could lead to political  turmoil in countries like Venezuela that depend so much on the  commodity and "don't have a lot of extra wealth on the side for  that rainy day"듯nlike Saudi Arabia and its neighbors.  Weighing in on the global currency market, Alwaleed simply said  "I'm a dollar man." As for equities, he said Kingdom Holdings will maintain its diversified strategy, but it is interested in some new companies like China's JD.com.  Following Abdullah's death, Crown Prince  Salman bin Abdulaziz became king of the  world's top oil exporter.  Salman is a reformer at heart, Alwaleed said, and the country  will continue down the same paths of financial, social and  political reform as during Abdullah's reign. Read MoreIcahn: Oil will go lower, 'tremendous  opportunity'Reflecting on the political turmoil in neighboring Yemen, Alwaleed said the resignations of that  country's prime minister and president means "clearly we have  seen the hands of Iran infiltrating that country through its  blatant and open support of the Houthis there."  He called it an "unfortunate situation" as Yemen's political  vacuum could eventually be a "seat of trouble." 