 Russia may be ready to join OPEC's efforts to curb oil  supply, but concerns remain about whether the deal would  rebalance the oil market.  Goldman Sachs analysts said in a Tuesday note that while recent  comments by Saudi Arabia and Russia pointed to a greater  probability of a production cut, "higher production from Libya,  Nigeria and Iraq are reducing the odds of such a deal rebalancing  the oil market in 2017."   The investment bank's comments came after Russian President  Vladimir Putin, speaking at an energy conference in Istanbul on Monday, gave a boost to oil prices by saying Russia was ready to join the joint measures to cap production and called for other oil exporters to join in the deal.The non-OPEC country  is the world's largest oil exporter.  Prices had already received a leg up in September after OPEC said it would  limit output at its November policy meeting, in the hope  of reducing a global supply overhang that has weighed on  prices.  Putin's comments  sent oil prices up as much as 3 percent in  the U.S. session. European Brent hit a one-year high while  U.S. West Texas Intermediate rose to its highest in four  months. Both grades were slightly lower around noon Tuesday in  Asia, with Brent moving around $51.20 a barrel, while U.S. crude  was around $53 a barrel.But Goldman cautioned that it was premature to assume that it  would be pushed through.  "An agreement to cut production, while increasingly  likely, remains premature given the high supply uncertainty in  2017 and would prove self-defeating if it were to  target sustainably higher oil prices," the bank's analysts  wrote.  ClipperData's Commodity Research Director Matt Smith was equally  wary.   With seven "long weeks" to go before the next OPEC policy  meeting, it remained to be seen how the oil cartel and Russia  would act on their verbal commitments, he said  "Until we get some actual physical barrels being taken off the  market or we get some actual levels put in place, then it is just  words and no action," Smith told CNBC's "The Rundown" on Tuesday.  The most significant factor in the loose deal was that de facto  OPEC leader Saudi Arabia had flinched and shown itself willing to  make concessions, most notably with arch-rival Iran, by letting  the country increase production as it emerged from sanctions.   With Saudi Arabia as OPEC's biggest exporter, "if there is going  to be a production freeze or a production cut, it is Saudi Arabia  that is going to do that heavy lifting," Smith explained.And there was the question of how U.S. energy producers would  respond to an oil production cut. The rise in oil prices meant  shale players would now be able to "hunker down and keep on  producing", which would contribute to a rise in energy supplies  globally, Smith said.    Smith forecast that oil prices were likely to see limited upside  from current levels. Goldman said a failure to reach an production cut would push prices sharply lower to $43 a barrel due to a global supply surplus in the fourth quarter of 2016. If a deal was reached but with its impact offset by an increase in other sources of supply, U.S. crude would hold around $52.5 a barrel in 2017, the bank added.Reuters contributed to this article.  Follow CNBC International on Twitter and Facebook.