Renewables hit record 37.1% share of UK generation 
28092018

0915
RenewableRenewable energy hit a record share of generation in the second quarter of 2018, reaching new highs of 31.7%.That's according to new statistics from the Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy (BEIS), which show fossil fuel generation simultaneously fell, with coal dropping to a new record low of 1.6%.
 
Renewable generation provided 24.3TWh of power, an increase of 3% per cent on the same period the year before.
 
The UK's total renewable capacity was 42.2GW at the end of the period, a tenth up from 2017's second quarter - more than half of this annual increase came from offshore wind.
 
Gas accounted for the largest share of generation at 42%, whilst nuclear made up 21.7%.

A BEIS Spokesperson said: "We've hit another landmark record, with this summer's intense sunshine generating enough solar power to fuel over a million homes.
 
"With less dirty coal being used than ever before and plans underway to phase out coal power completely by 2025, our modern Industrial Strategy is supporting thousands of good jobs in new clean growth industries."
 
The statistics reveal total energy production was 2.1% lower than in the second quarter of 2017, while temperature adjusted energy consumption rose by 0.3%.
Source: energylivenews.com
That's according to new statistics from the Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy (BEIS), which show fossil fuel generation simultaneously fell, with coal dropping to a new record low of 1.6%. Renewable generation provided 24.3TWh of power, an increase of 3% per cent on the same period the year before. The UK's total renewable capacity was 42.2GW at the end of the period, a tenth up from 2017's second quarter - more than half of this annual increase came from offshore wind. Gas accounted for the largest share of generation at 42%, whilst nuclear made up 21.7%.
A BEIS Spokesperson said: "We've hit another landmark record, with this summer's intense sunshine generating enough solar power to fuel over a million homes. "With less dirty coal being used than ever before and plans underway to phase out coal power completely by 2025, our modern Industrial Strategy is supporting thousands of good jobs in new clean growth industries." The statistics reveal total energy production was 2.1% lower than in the second quarter of 2017, while temperature adjusted energy consumption rose by 0.3%.Source: energylivenews.com