Romania gives Lukoil Overseas green light to start drilling Trident perimeter in Black Sea 
31102019

0813
Natural GasAccording to Seenews, Romania has given Lukoil Overseas Atash, a Dutch subsidiary of Russia's Lukoil, the green light to start drilling the Trident perimeter of the Romanian waters of the Black Sea, said the regulatory authority for offshore oil operations, ACROPO."According to the provisions of Law No.  165/2016 regarding the safety of offshore oil operations, with subsequent modifications and completions, following the evaluation of the documentation regarding the excavation project of the Trinity 1X exploration well in the EX-30 Trident perimeter, ACROPO transmitted to Lukoil Overseas Atash. B.V. its acceptance for the start of drilling operations," ACROPO said in a Facebook post.
 
"It is the first project we evaluated on the offshore deep water area, a real challenge for ACROPO specialists."
 
The Trident block is currently being operated by Lukoil and Romanian natural gas producer Romgaz. Romanian petroleum and gas drilling company Grup Servicii Petroliere is providing the drilling equipment.
 
According to seismic data released in 2015 when the two companies made a gas discovery, the area of the EX-30 Trident field can reach up to 39 sq km and reserves can exceed 30 billion cubic meters of gas.
Source: neftegaz.ru
"According to the provisions of Law No.  165/2016 regarding the safety of offshore oil operations, with subsequent modifications and completions, following the evaluation of the documentation regarding the excavation project of the Trinity 1X exploration well in the EX-30 Trident perimeter, ACROPO transmitted to Lukoil Overseas Atash. B.V. its acceptance for the start of drilling operations," ACROPO said in a Facebook post. "It is the first project we evaluated on the offshore deep water area, a real challenge for ACROPO specialists." The Trident block is currently being operated by Lukoil and Romanian natural gas producer Romgaz. Romanian petroleum and gas drilling company Grup Servicii Petroliere is providing the drilling equipment. According to seismic data released in 2015 when the two companies made a gas discovery, the area of the EX-30 Trident field can reach up to 39 sq km and reserves can exceed 30 billion cubic meters of gas.Source: neftegaz.ru