Rosatom seeks to boost cooperation in Eurasia 
14082018

0849
NuclearRusatom International Network - a subsidiary of Russian state nuclear corporation Rosatom - has signed a memorandum of understanding and cooperation with the Eurasian Development Bank (EDB).The memorandum provides for establishing common principles of bilateral cooperation with Armenia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan and other countries.
 
The agreement was signed on 10 August by Alexander Merten, president of Rusatom International Network, and Vsevolod Smakov from the EDB.
 
The parties agreed to jointly promote the implementation of Rosatom projects in high-technology areas, including: renewable energy sources, thermal power, nuclear medicine, the use of radiation technologies in industry, agriculture, food processing centres, construction and servicing of nuclear power plants and other complex engineering facilities.
 
In addition, the parties agreed to jointly determine the instruments and various forms of project financing with the participation of Rosatom organisations, provide information and consultancy support on project financing issues, participate in project promotion events (including conferences, exhibitions, forums and seminars) and organise mutually beneficial information exchange.
 
The EDB is an international financial institution founded by Russia and Kazakhstan in January 2006 with the mission to facilitate the development of market economies, sustainable economic growth, and the expansion of mutual trade and other economic ties in its member states. The EDB's charter capital totals USD7 billion. The member states of the Bank are Armenia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Russia and Tajikistan.
Source: world-nuclear-news.org
The memorandum provides for establishing common principles of bilateral cooperation with Armenia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan and other countries. The agreement was signed on 10 August by Alexander Merten, president of Rusatom International Network, and Vsevolod Smakov from the EDB. The parties agreed to jointly promote the implementation of Rosatom projects in high-technology areas, including: renewable energy sources, thermal power, nuclear medicine, the use of radiation technologies in industry, agriculture, food processing centres, construction and servicing of nuclear power plants and other complex engineering facilities. In addition, the parties agreed to jointly determine the instruments and various forms of project financing with the participation of Rosatom organisations, provide information and consultancy support on project financing issues, participate in project promotion events (including conferences, exhibitions, forums and seminars) and organise mutually beneficial information exchange. The EDB is an international financial institution founded by Russia and Kazakhstan in January 2006 with the mission to facilitate the development of market economies, sustainable economic growth, and the expansion of mutual trade and other economic ties in its member states. The EDB's charter capital totals USD7 billion. The member states of the Bank are Armenia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Russia and Tajikistan.Source: world-nuclear-news.org