  Oil's rally has helped two of Asia's most battered currencies  make up much-needed ground against the dollar.   Malaysia's ringgit and the Indonesian rupiah, whose fortunes are  closely tied to energy prices, have both been well  behaved in recent days.   The Indonesian rupiah Wednesday climbed to 14,030 against  the greenback, from 14,645 on September 30. The ringgit,  meanwhile, rose to 4.335 against the dollar from 4.394 a week  earlier.  The moves reflect a recovery in oil prices. The global oil benchmark, Brent Crude, was up 0.7 percent at  $52.28 in Asian trade on Wednesday, following overnight gains  of more than 4 percent.   Malaysia and Indonesia are big oil exporters so perceptions of  their economies typically sway in tandem with commodity  markets.  As oil prices have nudged higher recently, the pressure on  currencies in these countries has abated somewhat.  This respite may prove temporary though given stuttering growth, some analysts reckon. Malaysia also has to contend with a simmering political scandal. "After such a dismal Q3 performance, a correction is not  unusual. But an emerging market rally built on weaker growth  prospects is an unsustainable equilibrium," said Jason Daw, a  foreign exchange strategist at Societe Generale in a note.  In a report on Tuesday the International Monetary Fund (IMF)  trimmed its forecast for global growth in 2015 to 3.1 percent,  down by 0.2 percentage points from its July forecast.    Market volatility caused by unsteady commodity prices, falling  capital flows and currency pressures were expected to persist,  the .   Early last week, Indonesia's currency hit its lowest levels  against the dollar since July 1998 when it fell to 14,730,  according to data from Reuters.  Read MoreIs Indonesia's consumer  stronger than its currency?  Until the recent bounce, the rupiah had been steadily declining  against the dollar this year, as oil prices fell and capital  continued to flow out of emerging markets on concerns about  China's economic slowdown and the uncertainty around U.S.  monetary policy.   Similarly the Malaysian currency had also been falling against  the dollar since August. Malaysia is currently transfixed by  the malaise involving its sovereign wealth fund 1MDB,  leading to speculation that potential political instability is  fueling capital outflows.