Russia's Rosneft signs agreements to supply gas to Ghana 
31052018

0905
LNGRosneft gave Ghana's energy industry a shot in the arm Friday, signing a package of documents to supply natural gas to Ghana National Petroleum Corporation.Russia's biggest energy producer will deliver liquefied natural gas of around 1.7 million mt/year (or 250 million cubic feet/day) to the port of Tema over 12 years.
 
Rosneft gas supplies will satisfy a quarter of Ghana's energy demand, strengthen its energy security and reinforce the country's position as the key LNG hub in the region.
 
"The signed documents open a new stage in the development of cooperation between Russia and Ghana," Rosneft Chief Executive Officer Igor Sechin said. "Rosneft is capable of meeting this [growing Ghana] demand including also through LNG and natural gas supplies. Further, the documents open up wide exploration, production and trading possibilities for the company."
 
Rosneft and GNPC also signed a framework cooperation agreement that envisages a joint study of high-priority directions of mutually beneficial cooperation in the development of oil and gas fields, oil and oil product supplies.
 
Rosneft and Oranto Petroleum Limited in Nigeria also signed Friday a memorandum of understanding on potential cooperation in the implementation of oil and gas projects in Africa.
Source: platts.com
Russia's biggest energy producer will deliver liquefied natural gas of around 1.7 million mt/year (or 250 million cubic feet/day) to the port of Tema over 12 years. Rosneft gas supplies will satisfy a quarter of Ghana's energy demand, strengthen its energy security and reinforce the country's position as the key LNG hub in the region. "The signed documents open a new stage in the development of cooperation between Russia and Ghana," Rosneft Chief Executive Officer Igor Sechin said. "Rosneft is capable of meeting this [growing Ghana] demand including also through LNG and natural gas supplies. Further, the documents open up wide exploration, production and trading possibilities for the company." Rosneft and GNPC also signed a framework cooperation agreement that envisages a joint study of high-priority directions of mutually beneficial cooperation in the development of oil and gas fields, oil and oil product supplies. Rosneft and Oranto Petroleum Limited in Nigeria also signed Friday a memorandum of understanding on potential cooperation in the implementation of oil and gas projects in Africa.Source: platts.com