Russia and Japan agree to collaborate in hydrogen supply 
27092019

1036
HydroRusatom Overseas and Japan's Agency for Natural Resources and Energy under the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry signed an agreement to join efforts in conducting a feasibility study in 2020-2021 to export hydrogen from Russia to Japan.On the Russian side, the agreement was signed by Anton Moskvin, Vice president for marketing and business development at Rusatom Overseas, while on behalf of Japan - by Tomohiro Kaneko, Deputy Commissioner of the Agency for Natural Resources and Energy under the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry. The pilot export project envisages hydrogen production for the Japanese market using electrolysis.
 
"Today, Japan is one of the global leaders in developing the hydrogen economy. Hydrogen indeed has a vast range of potential applications, from electricity production to mobility, heating and industrial processes, however it is important to generate hydrogen in an environmentally friendly way. Rosatom is happy to offer its expertise in clean energy production as well as in equipment manufacturing and international projects implementation to collaborate with Japan in investigating the potential for global hydrogen supply chain development," said Anton Moskvin.
 
Rusatom Overseas is the Rosatomcompany in charge of bringing Rosatom's integrated offer to international markets.
Source: neftegaz.ru
On the Russian side, the agreement was signed by Anton Moskvin, Vice president for marketing and business development at Rusatom Overseas, while on behalf of Japan - by Tomohiro Kaneko, Deputy Commissioner of the Agency for Natural Resources and Energy under the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry. The pilot export project envisages hydrogen production for the Japanese market using electrolysis. "Today, Japan is one of the global leaders in developing the hydrogen economy. Hydrogen indeed has a vast range of potential applications, from electricity production to mobility, heating and industrial processes, however it is important to generate hydrogen in an environmentally friendly way. Rosatom is happy to offer its expertise in clean energy production as well as in equipment manufacturing and international projects implementation to collaborate with Japan in investigating the potential for global hydrogen supply chain development," said Anton Moskvin. Rusatom Overseas is the Rosatomcompany in charge of bringing Rosatom's integrated offer to international markets.Source: neftegaz.ru