Russian company to initiate feasibility study of undersea gas pipeline in 2020 
09122019

0901
Natural GasRussian company Gazprom is set to initiate the feasibility study in the first quarter of 2020 for laying down undersea pipeline starting from Persian Gulf to Pakistan, India and Bangladesh initially that will ultimately end to China after touching Myanmar and Thailand, a senior official of the Petroleum Division privy to the development told The News.The pipeline will pass through shallow waters of Pakistan, India and Bangladesh and every country will get the gas from the pipeline as per requirements. The total cost of the undersea pipeline will hover around $20-25 billion when it will be extended to China at last.
 
The most important aspect of the project, the official said, is that every country will provide the transit fee to Pakistan, which will run into billions of dollars when the said pipeline will ultimately have access to China. Pakistan will be getting transit fee from India, Bangladesh, Myanmar, Thailand and China. Pakistan's Navy will provide services with regard to monitoring the pipeline and its security.
 
More importantly Russia-Pakistan economic corridor will also be set up and Russia will also invest in fiber optic link, roads and power projects as ancillary facilities.
 
Pakistan will take the gas up to 1bcf per day when the said pipeline will come on stream with massive rollover impact on economy. Russia is already engaged with Pakistan on North South Gas Pipeline, which will cost $2-2.5 billion. However, Gazprom has also shown interest in building gas storages in Pakistan with investment of $400-500 million.
Source: thenews.com.pk
The pipeline will pass through shallow waters of Pakistan, India and Bangladesh and every country will get the gas from the pipeline as per requirements. The total cost of the undersea pipeline will hover around $20-25 billion when it will be extended to China at last. The most important aspect of the project, the official said, is that every country will provide the transit fee to Pakistan, which will run into billions of dollars when the said pipeline will ultimately have access to China. Pakistan will be getting transit fee from India, Bangladesh, Myanmar, Thailand and China. Pakistan's Navy will provide services with regard to monitoring the pipeline and its security. More importantly Russia-Pakistan economic corridor will also be set up and Russia will also invest in fiber optic link, roads and power projects as ancillary facilities. Pakistan will take the gas up to 1bcf per day when the said pipeline will come on stream with massive rollover impact on economy. Russia is already engaged with Pakistan on North South Gas Pipeline, which will cost $2-2.5 billion. However, Gazprom has also shown interest in building gas storages in Pakistan with investment of $400-500 million.Source: thenews.com.pk