  As oil prices continue to cause market uncertainty, and with low  fuel prices wreaking havoc on some countries' economies, notably  Russia's, the world's top oil producer has been at the forefront  of trying to figure out whether or not a production cut should be  implemented in order to support and stabilize prices.   An Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC)  delegate recently said, "It is all in the hands of the Russians  now."  Oil production in Russia hit a post-Soviet high in January, which  means Russia is adding fuel to the oversupplied oil market fire.  Russia itself is sending mixed signals as to how much it's  willing to cooperate with geopolitical foes, like Saudi  Arabia.   But experts and analysts differ in their assessments of how much  leverage the Russians really have when it comes to cutting oil  production.   A managing director in the energy group at Morgan Stanley, who  asked not to be named, because of direct involvement in the  markets, told CNBC that the Saudis are still calling all the  shots.   "Russia can only coordinate with countries outside of Saudi  Arabia, like Venezuela. Any cooperation without Saudi Arabia  won't lead to a production cut. Everything else is a sideshow."  Several analysts agree that Russia is trying to talk up the oil  markets by holding meetings and even hinting at the possibility  of cuts.   That's what many believe occurred last week, when Russian Energy Minister Alexander Novak said his country would  cooperate with a deal to cut production and that Saudi Arabia had proposed each country reduce oil output by  5 percent to support prices. Others close to OPEC quickly denied that any such deal, or even talks, were taking place. And one OPEC official said it was an old idea floated long ago by Algeria and Venezuela.  On Wednesday, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov suggested  Russia was open to a meeting with the oil-producing cartel. But  comments from Russia's representative to OPEC said that it was  unlikely the group  would meet with Russia anytime soon, according to Russian  news agency Interfax.Despite the widespread skepticism, oil again rallied on Thursday after speculation that Iran might be willing to discuss production cuts, according to a Reuters report.  "Up to this point — and there is a history to this —  OPEC (essentially Saudi Arabia) has not been interested," Robert  Legvold, the Marshall D. Shulman professor emeritus of political  science at Columbia University, told CNBC.   "The Saudi's are using low oil prices to drive higher marginal  cost producers out of the market and close down shale production.  The Russians are not only suffering the ruble-oil problem from  low oil prices, although they have protected revenue to a degree  by pumping more oil, but that poses a longer-term problem.  Russia's existing developed reserves may be tapped out at this  rate within two years."  Others, though, believe Russia has a lot of power when it comes  to the oil market at the moment.   "We think Russia is a wild card, because if you look at 2015,  they really surprised many analysts by being up several hundred  thousand barrels," said Helima Croft, a CNBC contributor and  head of commodity strategy at RBC Capital markets.   "Most people did not expect that they could replicate a  post-Soviet high in terms of production, and the question for  this year is, Are they going to be up or are they going to be  down? If they're up again this year, everyone's gonna have to  take their oil-price forecast down."  Croft pointed to Russian producers, like Lukoil, publicly stating they would  consider cutting production.  Reva Bhalla, vice president at geopolitical consultant  Stratfor, in Austin, Texas, said she would not take cues from  Russian energy companies as a signal of what Russia intends to do  in terms of energy policy.   "I know there was a lot of excitement by statements from Lukoil  this past week, but remember, Lukoil is a private company, a very  different energy firm when we're looking at Russia overall,"  Bhalla told CNBC.   "I don't think Russia does have the wild card here. Russia is  still producing at post-Soviet record highs, above 10 million  barrels per day."  Many analysts agree that even if Russia does want to cut  production, without Saudi Arabia's cooperation, it would mostly  be talk, with geopolitics complicating things quite a bit.   "When it comes to Russia trying to compel a Saudi cut, there is a  lot of distrust there. I think the Saudis are going to be much  more focused on U.S. production than they are on coordination  talks with Russia," Bhalla said.   Eurasia Group president Ian Bremmer echoed those sentiments,  telling CNBC that although the producers would like prices to go  up, many of the oil-producing countries "hate each other and that  creates complications," particularly when Iran is factored into  the equation.  "From Saudi Arabia's perspective, the nuclear deal (and the  lifting of sanctions) could not have come at a worse time. They  can barely sit in the same room, let alone agree on a production  cutback. And the last thing the Saudis are prepared to do is cede  market share to Iran."  Bremmer said if a broader group, not including Iran, could come  together, we may see some cooperation, but he did underscore that  we are not there yet.   "Russia is focused on budget and tax measures and isn't ready to  sign up with the Saudis, either. As prices stay lower for longer,  we might see a move, but right now they're just talking the  prices up, which is most definitely in their interest."  New York-based attorney Edward Mermelstein, who advises  high-net-worth individuals looking to invest in Russia and the  former Soviet Union, told CNBC that his clients are worried and  starting to look elsewhere because of the current economic  picture in Russia of low oil prices, a falling ruble and  sanctions.   "The [oil] price heading down into the twenties is going to  impact Russia's economy even more significantly than where it is  today, which is in dire straits."  Mermelstein said his clients' concern is reflected in their  coming to the United States and looking for other investing  options, because they fear Russia can't do much to help drive  prices back up.   "It's definitely not up to them, because there are so many  players that have interest today in this market, that it's  unlikely we will see Russia have any practical influence."  Citigroup's global research team analyst, Scott Gruber, explained  on Wednesday a simple economic reason why Russia may be all talk  while it keeps pumping:  "With taxes and the ruble heavily oil-linked, Russian oil  remains profitable to well below $20/bbl. ... Russian production  should hold steady or even grow," he wrote in a research note.  For now, the Wall Street view seems to be that if the Russians  are coming, it's with as much, if not even more oil, rather than  ideas to reverse the glut.