Russia retires Leningrad unit 1 
28122018

0933
NuclearUnit 1 of the Leningrad nuclear power plant has been withdrawn from service after 45 years of safe operation, Russian state nuclear corporation Rosatom has announced. It said the lead unit in the RBMK-1000 series was shut down at 11:30pm on 21 December.The reactor was gradually shut down in accordance with the technological regulations before being disconnected from the national grid. The unit was commissioned on 21 December 1973 and had since generated 264.9 TWh of electricity. In all its years of operation it has not experienced a single serious incident, Rosatom said.
 
Vladimir Pereguda, director of the Leningrad plant, said the unit had "reliably and safely" served the national economy both in Soviet times and in modern Russia.
 
"The last stage of the life cycle of any nuclear facility begins with decommissioning," he said. "Now our task is to safely and securely maintain the shutdown unit, unload nuclear fuel from the reactor and prepare all its systems for decommissioning."
 
According to federal regulations, a shutdown nuclear power unit is considered to be in operation until its fuel has been removed, which is tentatively scheduled for completion in 2023, Rosatom said. Procedures performed for the closure of a unit are not unlike those for routine repair work and thus plant personnel are fully prepared for this task, it added.
Source: world-nuclear-news.org
The reactor was gradually shut down in accordance with the technological regulations before being disconnected from the national grid. The unit was commissioned on 21 December 1973 and had since generated 264.9 TWh of electricity. In all its years of operation it has not experienced a single serious incident, Rosatom said. Vladimir Pereguda, director of the Leningrad plant, said the unit had "reliably and safely" served the national economy both in Soviet times and in modern Russia. "The last stage of the life cycle of any nuclear facility begins with decommissioning," he said. "Now our task is to safely and securely maintain the shutdown unit, unload nuclear fuel from the reactor and prepare all its systems for decommissioning." According to federal regulations, a shutdown nuclear power unit is considered to be in operation until its fuel has been removed, which is tentatively scheduled for completion in 2023, Rosatom said. Procedures performed for the closure of a unit are not unlike those for routine repair work and thus plant personnel are fully prepared for this task, it added.Source: world-nuclear-news.org