Russia to take on Australia and Indonesia in Asian coal market 
17092018

0905
CoalSUEK, Russia's largest coal producer, intends to boost sales to Thailand, Vietnam and other Southeast Asian countries.Russia is looking to Asia, where demand for the commodity is likely to grow as many new coal-fired power plants are about to go online in India and Southeast Asia.
 
At the end of August, Russian Energy Minister Alexander Novak unveiled an ambitious target of doubling the country's coal exports to Asia by 2025 from around 100 million tons in 2018.
 
President Vladimir Putin has also urged Russian resources companies to invest more in export infrastructure, such as the Trans-Siberian Railway and ports. "The current business environment allows Russia to expand its exposure to the global coal market, to strengthen its position and raise its market share," Putin said in late August.
 
SUEK, Russia's largest coal miner, is expanding the port of Vanino, in Russia's Far East. The port began commercial operation in 2009 and the port is expected to ship around 20 million tons of coal this year.
 
SUEK told the Nikkei Asian Review it plans to raise the port's annual export capacity by 80% to 40 million tons. The company wants to sell more to Thailand, Vietnam and other Southeast Asian countries, where demand is expected to be strong, as well as China, Japan and South Korea, historically the three main importers in Asia.
Source: nikkei.com
Russia is looking to Asia, where demand for the commodity is likely to grow as many new coal-fired power plants are about to go online in India and Southeast Asia. At the end of August, Russian Energy Minister Alexander Novak unveiled an ambitious target of doubling the country's coal exports to Asia by 2025 from around 100 million tons in 2018. President Vladimir Putin has also urged Russian resources companies to invest more in export infrastructure, such as the Trans-Siberian Railway and ports. "The current business environment allows Russia to expand its exposure to the global coal market, to strengthen its position and raise its market share," Putin said in late August. SUEK, Russia's largest coal miner, is expanding the port of Vanino, in Russia's Far East. The port began commercial operation in 2009 and the port is expected to ship around 20 million tons of coal this year. SUEK told the Nikkei Asian Review it plans to raise the port's annual export capacity by 80% to 40 million tons. The company wants to sell more to Thailand, Vietnam and other Southeast Asian countries, where demand is expected to be strong, as well as China, Japan and South Korea, historically the three main importers in Asia.Source: nikkei.com