Russia launched construction works at Turkey's first nuclear power plant 
04042018

1707
NuclearRussian President Vladimir Putin and Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan attended through videolink from Ankara a ceremony to mark the launch of the construction for the unit 1 of the Akkuyu nuclear power plant.The Turkish Atomic Energy Authority (TAEK) offered a construction approval for Akkuyu NPP, Turkey's first nuclear power plant, which is being built in Mersin province, in southern Turkey.
 
The $20 billion project likely to build the four-unit, 4800 MWe plant represents part of Erdogan's '2023 Vision' marking 100 years since the founding of modern Turkey and is planned to diminish the country's reliance on energy imports. The first unit is scheduled to become functional that year, with the other three units following by 2025. The plant is foreseen to cover about 10% of Turkey's power needs.
 
Erdogan underlined that, between 2003 and 2017, the Turkish economy had registered an average growth of 5.8%, and last year alone by 7.4%. As the country strives to become one of the ten wealthiest nations in the world, energy supplies will be essential, and the new nuclear power plant will be of major importance.
 
On the other side, Putin declared: "We have an ambitious task - to launch the first power unit in 2023, timed to coincide with the 100th anniversary of the founding of the Republic of Turkey. Together with my dear friend Recep Tayyip Erdogan, we have agreed that we will do everything in order to fulfill this task."I am confident that the joint coordinated work of Russian and Turkish specialists will allow fulfilling all the planned plans in time. And the successful implementation of this project will be one of the symbols of the dynamic, progressive development of Russian-Turkish interaction and partnership, Russian-Turkish friendship."
 
The Akkuyu NPP project is set up on an inter-governmental accord inked between Russia and Turkey in May 2010. In October 2011, JSC Akkuyu Nuclear obtained a site license and in November 2013 its site report got a construction permit.
The Turkish Atomic Energy Authority (TAEK) offered a construction approval for Akkuyu NPP, Turkey's first nuclear power plant, which is being built in Mersin province, in southern Turkey. The $20 billion project likely to build the four-unit, 4800 MWe plant represents part of Erdogan's '2023 Vision' marking 100 years since the founding of modern Turkey and is planned to diminish the country's reliance on energy imports. The first unit is scheduled to become functional that year, with the other three units following by 2025. The plant is foreseen to cover about 10% of Turkey's power needs. Erdogan underlined that, between 2003 and 2017, the Turkish economy had registered an average growth of 5.8%, and last year alone by 7.4%. As the country strives to become one of the ten wealthiest nations in the world, energy supplies will be essential, and the new nuclear power plant will be of major importance. On the other side, Putin declared: "We have an ambitious task - to launch the first power unit in 2023, timed to coincide with the 100th anniversary of the founding of the Republic of Turkey. Together with my dear friend Recep Tayyip Erdogan, we have agreed that we will do everything in order to fulfill this task."I am confident that the joint coordinated work of Russian and Turkish specialists will allow fulfilling all the planned plans in time. And the successful implementation of this project will be one of the symbols of the dynamic, progressive development of Russian-Turkish interaction and partnership, Russian-Turkish friendship." The Akkuyu NPP project is set up on an inter-governmental accord inked between Russia and Turkey in May 2010. In October 2011, JSC Akkuyu Nuclear obtained a site license and in November 2013 its site report got a construction permit.