Saudi Arabia is determined to stick to its policy of pumping  enough oil to protect its global market share, despite the  financial pain inflicted on the kingdom's economy.  Officials have told the Financial Times that the world's largest  exporter will produce enough oil to meet customer demand,  indicating that the kingdom is in no mood to change tack ahead of  the December 4 meeting in Vienna of the producers' cartel Opec.  "The only thing to do now is to let the market do its job," said  Khalid al-Falih, chairman of the state-owned Saudi Arabian Oil  Company (Saudi Aramco). "There have been no conversations here  that say we should cut production now that we've seen the pain."  Saudi Arabia rocked oil markets last November when Opec decided  against production cuts, making clear that the kingdom was  abandoning its policy of reducing supplies to stabilize the  price.  Since then, the oil price has collapsed from a high of $115 a  barrel last year to $50 a barrel.  Global oil companies, which have put hundreds of billions of  dollars of investment on hold as a result of low prices, will be  disappointed by the Kingdom's stance.  The effect on business sentiment has sparked domestic criticism  of the market share policy engineered by Ali al-Naimi, the oil  minister, and agreed by both the late King Abdullah and the  current King Salman, who was crown prince last year and ascended  the throne in January.  Officials in Riyadh say their policy will be vindicated in one to  two years when revived demand swallows the global oil glut and  prices begin to recover.  They argue that in the past, Opec output cuts raised prices to  levels where more expensive production, such as shale and  deep-sea oil, could flourish. Moving ahead, Opec — led by  Saudi Arabia — plans to pump as much as it can towards  meeting global oil demand, leaving higher-cost producers to make  up the remainder.  For higher-cost producers, "$100 oil was perceived as a guarantee  of no risk for investment", said Mr Falih. "Now, the insurance  policy that's been provided free of charge by Saudi Arabia does  not exist any more."  Mr Falih, who is also health minister, forecast the market would  come into balance in the new year, and then demand would start to  suck up inventories and storage on oil tankers. "Hopefully,  however, there will be enough investment to meet the needs beyond  2017."  Other officials also estimated that it would probably take one to  two years for the market to clear up the oil market glut,  allowing prices to recover towards $70-$80 a barrel.  The fall in government revenues has pushed Saudi Arabia's  oil-dependent economy into a fiscal crunch. To fund this year's  budget deficit of 20 per cent of gross domestic product, the  government is dipping into its massive financial reserves. More from the Financial Times:  Barack Obama rejects Keystone XL  pipeline plan  Egyptian activist questioned by  military prosecutor Grasp the reality of China's rise  Officials are also working on a more sustainable strategy to  curtail spending, which has ballooned in recent years.  Delaying infrastructure projects, such as the Riyadh underground,  and enforcing a spending squeeze across government departments  has brought a slowdown in the private sector.  Senior officials dismiss the domestic criticism of the oil  policy, saying other producers would have quickly replaced any  Saudi production cuts with new output.  Officials, however, acknowledge that the extent of the oil price  slump has been deeper than initially envisaged.  "We knew that it was going to be painful but the extent of the  pain went beyond our expectations," said Mr Falih. "The market  has overreacted as it typically does in such down-cycles."  Read MoreWhere's oil headed? Ask  China  But oil producers are now cancelling projects outright, rather  than just deferring them, raising concerns of a future jump in  price if demand outpaces supply.  "Now everyone is running to the exit and projects are being  cancelled," said Mr Falih. "That's necessary, but what will  happen five to 10 years from now? Investment is needed."