  Saudi Arabia is pumping record amounts of oil, and Iran is  resuming production faster than expected — a strong sign  neither is likely to easily entertain the idea of an OPEC deal to control production.  OPEC this week said it would hold an informal meeting on the  sidelines of an Algerian energy conference in late September, and  some members — mostly Venezuela — have been pushing for  talks on a new pricing mechanism. Chatter about a possible  OPEC deal at that meeting sent oil prices higher this week, but  they were in sharp retreat Wednesday on reports of higher U.S. oil  stockpiles and on news that Saudi Arabia's production rose to a  record 10.67 million barrels a day in July.  "I'm skeptical that we're going to see anything out of OPEC. I  don't see anything out of Saudi. Their silence is rather  telling," said Greg Priddy, director of global energy with Eurasia Group.  Saudi Arabia, the largest OPEC exporter, would have to be part of  any plan to change the OPEC strategy of letting the market set  prices. That strategy, master-minded by Saudi, was adopted by the  Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries in November  2014. The policy preceded another big downdraft in prices. Some analysts say  OPEC is trying to boost prices with its talk of a meeting,  and RBC analysts believe oil had been oversold and may have found  a new bottom, thanks to that chatter. West Texas Intermediate  crude futures dipped into bear market territory briefly last week  when they fell below $40 a barrel, viewed as a key psychological  level.  Saudi Arabia and Iran were at the center of disagreement that  scuttled a previous OPEC effort to freeze production last April,  and both are seen as key to any future deal. Saudi Arabia has  said it will not agree to any limitations on production unless  all producers agree. Iran, meanwhile, had refused to be limited  in any way, as it was in the process of returning barrels to the  market after sanctions against it were lifted.  Iranian Oil Minister Bijan Namdar Zanganeh was quoted Wednesday  by Fars as saying Iran's oil production was at 3.85 million  barrels a day, according to wire reports. The U.S. Energy  Information Administration had estimated that Iran would not be  back to that level until 2017.   Meanwhile, Venezuela President Nicolas Maduro said he spoke to  Saudi Arabia's king about boosting oil prices and is reaching out  to the heads of state of other producing nations about boosting  oil prices.  "He just came across as very desperate," said Priddy. Venezuela  has been in disarray politically and economically, and its oil  production has suffered as a result. Low prices have given it no  ability to maintain or improve its oil infrastructure. Maduro  said OPEC should try to return oil prices to the $70 per barrel  level, according to wire reports.  "If you look at the amount of short interest in WTI and Brent,  these flurries of speculation from OPEC, coming from the weaker  members, tend to be when you see a run up in short interest,"  Priddy said. "It's kind of opportune of them to start a short  covering rally. I think in the next couple of months, we're going  to see repeated attempts to keep some of this chatter alive."  Priddy said he believes the market is very close to rebalancing.  A global supply glut flooded the world with upwards of 1.5  million extra barrels a day earlier this year.  OPEC, in its August report Wednesday, forecast demand growth of  1.22 million barrels a day year on year, which was 30,000  barrels higher than forecast in July.   Analysts say oil could remain under pressure as U.S. refineries  undergo seasonal maintenance this fall. Refiners typically reduce their  need for crude oil between late August and October, as they switch over to produce winter blends.  The U.S. is also working its way through a gasoline glut that had  pressured crude prices. On Wednesday, the EIA reported that there  was a drawdown of about 2.8 million barrels in domestic gasoline  but a build of 1.1 million barrels in U.S. crude production.  Citigroup analysts said production data from both the U.S. and  OPEC on Wednesday signals that OPEC is winning its market share  battle against U.S. shale producers and questions the rationale  behind any kind of freeze by the cartel.   U.S. oil production held steady at 8.4 million barrels a day last  week, about a million barrels a day less than year-ago levels,  according to EIA data Wednesday. The U.S. and Mexico have been  among the biggest contributors to cutbacks that have led to the  rebalancing of the world oil market, while OPEC and Russia  continued to pump. There are also outages in Nigeria and Libya  that have kept oil off the market but either of those countries  could restore production at some point, adding barrels to the  market.   Analysts mostly expect oil to head higher after the end of U.S.  refining maintenance. But they disagree on how much oil could  drop in the interim. WTI futures closed at $41.71 per barrel  Wednesday, down 2.5 percent.  "There's some key technical numbers right around $35, and I think  that's what we're going to consider before we can have a more  constructive outlook," said John Kilduff, partner with Again  Capital. He said the trough could come right around the time of  the energy conference where OPEC plans to meet — Sept.  26-28.  "Prices will be low again, likely below $40, and the glut is  going to be apparent to everyone. … I think they're going to  be hysterical going into the OPEC meeting. They're going to have  to do something," he said.  There has been speculation that OPEC would discuss, or perhaps launch a  study of, returning to production bands if oil really does tank.  Those bands dictate a range of production for each nation and  move the production quota with the price of  oil.   He said OPEC may not be able to just talk up the price as it has  before. "I think they've gone to the well one time too many. They  need to do something that will give them cover so they can  cheat," he said. He explained that with a production band,  there's a fixed quota, and different prices would mean different  levels of production.  "I think everyone who loved to cheat loved the collective  ceiling," said Helima Croft, RBC global head of commodity  strategy. "This is where the accountability becomes much more of  an issue. How do you give Iraq an individual quota when they've  been out of the market for so long. The band idea gives enough  latitude to say you can produce between X and X, and that might  be a way to bring everyone together."  Kilduff said he would expect OPEC to continue as they are, even  if they did agree to a band. "They weren't very good at it last  time. They were like dieters around a dessert table," he said.  