Saudis to invest $3B in Bangladesh gas-to-power project 
21102019

1009
Electricity MarketSaudi utility company ACWA Power and Saudi Aramco are set to invest $3 billion in a gas-to-power project in Bangladesh, the local government said in a Memorandum of Understanding ceremony last week.The project includes the construction of a liquefied natural gas (LNG) terminal and a gas-fired power plant, with the capacity to generate 3,600 megawatts of power. The investment is expected to receive the greenlight to proceed by 2020, Kallanish Energy reports.
 
ACWA chairman Mohammad Abdullah Abunayyan said the "landmark" project would be ACWA's largest gas-to-power development and its first association with Aramco in such a project.
 
The plant and terminal are said to be built in either the Moheshkhali area of Cox's Bazar, or the port of Payra. Saudi investors will conduct a feasibility study within the next six months before deciding on the exact location, they said.
 
According to local reports, some $2.5 billion of the investment will be allocated to the power plant and the remaining $500 million budgeted will be spent to build the LNG terminal.
Source: kallanishenergy.com
The project includes the construction of a liquefied natural gas (LNG) terminal and a gas-fired power plant, with the capacity to generate 3,600 megawatts of power. The investment is expected to receive the greenlight to proceed by 2020, Kallanish Energy reports. ACWA chairman Mohammad Abdullah Abunayyan said the "landmark" project would be ACWA's largest gas-to-power development and its first association with Aramco in such a project. The plant and terminal are said to be built in either the Moheshkhali area of Cox's Bazar, or the port of Payra. Saudi investors will conduct a feasibility study within the next six months before deciding on the exact location, they said. According to local reports, some $2.5 billion of the investment will be allocated to the power plant and the remaining $500 million budgeted will be spent to build the LNG terminal.Source: kallanishenergy.com