  Old disputes between Saudi Arabia and rival Iran resurfaced at a  meeting of OPEC experts last week, with Riyadh threatening  to raise oil output steeply to bring prices down if Tehran  refuses to limit its supply, OPEC sources say.  Clashes between the two OPEC heavyweights, which are fighting  proxy wars in Syria and Yemen, have become frequent in recent  years.  Tensions subsided, however, in recent months after Saudi Arabia  agreed to support a global oil supply limiting pact, thus raising  the prospect that the Organization of the  Petroleum Exporting Countries would take steps to boost  oil prices.  But a meeting of OPEC experts last week, designed to work out  details of cuts for the next OPEC ministerial gathering on Nov.  30, saw Saudis and Iranian clashing again, according to four OPEC  sources who were present at the meeting and spoke to Reuters on  condition of anonymity.  "The Saudis have threatened to raise their production to 11  million barrels per day and even 12 million bpd, bringing oil  prices down, and to withdraw from the meeting," one OPEC source  who attended the meeting told Reuters.  OPEC headquarters declined to comment on discussions during the  closed-door meetings last week. Saudi and Iranian OPEC delegates  also declined official comments.  Saudi Arabia has increased output since 2014 to record highs of  around 10.5 million-10.7 million barrels per day and adding extra  supply would only worsen the global glut, which has already seen  prices more than halving from $115 a barrel since mid 2014.  The Saudi threat followed objections by Iran, which said it was  unwilling to freeze its output, the same OPEC sources said. Iran  has argued it should be exempt from such limits as its production  recovers after the lifting of EU sanctions.  The Saudi threat will revive memories of a pump war that Riyadh  embarked on at the end of 2014 to claw market share back from  higher-cost producers. Iran along with other OPEC price hawks  have severely criticized the Saudi strategy.  Riyadh has softened its stance since the appointment of Khalid  al-Falih as energy minister in May this year.  In September, OPEC agreed at a meeting in Algeria on modest  preliminary oil output cuts in the first such deal since 2008,  with special conditions given to Libya, Nigeria and Iran, whose  output has been hit by wars and sanctions.  A new rise in tensions observed during the meeting of experts  last week highlights the fragile nature of OPEC agreements. The  group has a long way to go before it turns its preliminary  Algerian accord into a real deal.  The Saudi threat to raise output came as a surprise even to  Riyadh's Gulf OPEC allies, sources who attended the meeting of  experts on Oct. 28 said.  One source said the Saudi OPEC delegation has asked to call off  the next day's meeting with non-OPEC producers, including Russia,  on Oct. 29 since Iran was objecting to a deal. But they were  convinced by other members to attend it in order not to embarrass  the group.  "We felt as if they (the Saudis) wanted the meeting to fail,"  said a third, non-Iranian OPEC source.  The Saudi OPEC delegation told their Iranian counterparts that  Tehran should freeze output at 3.66 million bpd — the latest  estimates of Iranian output by OPEC experts, known as secondary  sources.  Iran has reported its output at 3.85 million bpd in September and  said it would only cap its output at 12.7 percent of OPEC's total  ceiling — or 4.2 million bpd.  Iran's counter-argument at the meeting was that Saudi Arabia has  raised its output by almost 1 million bpd since 2014, and is now  trying to convince others it would cut output by 400,000 bpd to  get a deal, though in reality Riyadh has already won extra  production and revenue, according to OPEC sources.  Iranian comments after meeting to domestic media indicated  tensions were high.  "Working in oil industry is like operating at war fronts and we  have to preserve our trenches by raising our production capacity  as much as we can," Ali Kardor, managing director of the National  Iranian Oil Company (NIOC), told the oil ministry's news agency  Shana.  "The next OPEC meeting is near and we will never cease to  recapture our quota in the organization," he said on Monday,  adding that Iran's crude oil output was nearing 4 million bpd.  OPEC sources have said Saudi Arabia offered to reduce its output  from summer peaks of 10.7 million bpd to about 10.2 million if  Iran agreed to freeze production at around levels of 3.6  million-3.7 million bpd.  The Saturday meeting with non-OPEC producers went ahead though  they made no specific commitment.  The High Level Committee of experts will meet again in Vienna on  Nov. 25 to finalize the details ahead of the next meeting of OPEC  ministers on Nov. 30.  OPEC Secretary-General Mohammed Barkindo has said he is  "optimistic" a final agreement will be reached. An OPEC delegate,  who attended Friday's meeting, said he still hoped for a deal in  November.  "People can look at it from different angles. The fact that  discussions are still going on is a positive one. They are going  to work on it, close to the ministers' meeting," the delegate  said.  (Writing by Dmitry Zhdannikov, Editing by Angus MacSwan)