 Saudi  Arabia's decision to cut prices for some of its oil exports  is raising serious questions about the kingdom's commitment to  limiting production, analysts said.  Members of the Organization of the Oil Exporting Countries  tentatively agreed last week to reduce crude supply. That effort  to stabilize prices marked a change in course for top oil  exporter Saudi Arabia and other producers, which had been cutting  selling prices in order to grab market share over the course of a  two-year oil downturn.  But on Wednesday, the kingdom's state oil giant, Saudi Aramco,  appeared to move away from the idea of price stabilization when  it said it was lowering the cost of Arab Light and other crude  products for November delivery to Asian customers, Reuters  reported.  "It does fly in the face of the agreement. It's just another  thing that belies the agreement and the prices we're at right  now," John Kilduff, founding partner at Again Capital, told CNBC on Wednesday after crude futures hit highs going back  to June. "It makes me think they're not serious about any cutback  agreement."  In Kilduff's view, Saudi Arabia is likely to continue competing  aggressively for share as regional rival Iran claws back much  of its crude export volume after the end of international  sanctions against the country this year.  The Saudis have grown more creative in managing oil markets and  putting a floor under prices, said Tamar Essner, senior director  of energy and utilities at Nasdaq Corporate Solutions. They  demonstrated this first by talking up a deal to freeze output that they later scuttled at a special meeting in April, and just last  week by delivering an agreement to cut production that was short on details but  nevertheless helped prop up crude futures, she said.  "The decision to 'agree' to anything without commitment from Iran  is a departure, and it shows that the exclusive focus on market  share has probably run its course in terms of effectiveness, but  today's news on price cuts shows that they will continue to flex  their muscle as one of the largest and lowest-cost producers,"  Essner told CNBC on Wednesday.  Ahead of the surprise agreement, Saudi Energy Minister Khalid  al-Falih said that Iran, Libya and Nigeria may be allowed to pump  "at maximum levels that make sense," Reuters  reported.   To be sure, the Saudis did not cut their official selling price  as much as the market anticipated, and the cost does regularly  fluctuate as Riyadh attempts to price its product to accommodate  its refining customers' margins, according to Andrew Lipow,  president of Lipow Oil Associates.  A Thomson Reuters survey showed four refiners anticipated the  price of Arab Light to fall by 20 to 50 cents a  barrel. Saudi Aramco dropped the cost of its flagship product by  25 cents.  Still, Wednesday's price reduction does raise questions, Lipow  said.  "Clearly, it is inconsistent with the Saudis claim that they're  going to cut production in the future, because one would think if  you're going to cut production you don't have to cut your crude  oil price very much," he told CNBC.  The Algeria meeting ended with an agreement to discuss a plan to  cut production by 200,000 to 700,000 barrels a day at OPEC's annual meeting on Nov. 30, opening the  possibility that members will continue to scramble for  market share before finally agreeing to production caps.   "We still have two months of rapid free-for-all," Lipow said.  The OPEC pact, agreed to after a special meeting of cartel members in Algiers, has already faced challenges. Iraqi oil Minister Jabbar al-Luaibi has warned his country may walk away  from any deal if it does not agree with the way OPEC assesses current production, The Wall Street Journal reported.  OPEC collects output figures both from member countries and  secondary sources. Iraq, the cartel's second-largest producer, worries  that if production quotas are based on secondary information, it  will be forced to slash output more than it believes is fair.  "I think there's a very good chance that [the deal] gets  derailed. The production cuts involve countries like Iraq and the  Emirates who probably are not very excited about cutting their  production," Lipow said.