Don't expect Saudi Arabia's new oil boss to bring big  change to OPEC's June meeting, analysts warned, after the energy  power replaced its long-serving minister Ali al-Naimi on  Saturday.  "Al-Naimi's removal is less a reflection on [his] policies, which  really have carried the kingdom through two decades of highs and  lows in the oil markets, than a reflection of the tough scope of  the work ahead in Saudi Arabia" Emily Hawthorne, Middle East  analyst at political consultancy Strafor, told CNBC's "The  Rundown".   In a far-reaching government shake-up, , who had been oil minister since 1995, with Khalid  al-Falih, the chairman of state-owned oil company Aramco.  The change came after a sustained decline in oil prices; oil  prices have fallen as much as 70 percent since mid-2014 amid an  energy supply surplus and a slowdown in global demand growth.  Saudi Arabia is one of the world's largest crude oil producer and  the de facto leader of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting  Countries (OPEC). The exit of the country's high-profile minister  comes just ahead of the next OPEC meeting, scheduled for June 2.  The 13-member oil cartel has repeatedly refused to cut supply  despite the slide in prices, as Saudi Arabia sticks to its  strategy of leveraging its low-cost production to squeeze out  higher-cost U.S. shale oil producers.   Saudi Arabia has also reportedly refused to sign up to a  production freeze deal unless Iran, which has only recently returned to  the oil market and is determined to built its market share, also  signs up to the deal.  IHS vice chairman Dan Yergin told CNBC's "Squawk Box" on Monday that Saudi  Arabia was unlikely to back down in June from this position.  "Al-Falih has said he will continue [Saudi Arabia's intention of  allowing] the market determine the market and not have the old  days of OPEC trying to manage the market," Yergin said.  On Sunday, al-Falih  said he would maintain the country's "stable petroleum  policies," according to a Reuters report.  It's also in Saudi's long-term interest to keep crude oil  prices low now in order to limit demand shift to alternative fuels such as shale and, at the same time, spur economic change in the  kingdom, Taurus Wealth Advisors executive,  Rainer Michael Preiss, told CNBC's "Street Signs".  "We remain committed to maintaining our role in international  energy markets and strengthening our position as the world's most  reliable supplier of energy," al-Falih said in a statement  emailed to Reuters.   The Saudi strategy of letting oil prices fall until shale  producers can no longer function, however, has taken longer than  expected to work, which has taken a toll on the oil  income-reliant Saudi economy.  In April, Saudi  Arabia unveiled a long-term economic blueprint for life in a  low-oil-price world. Titled "Saudi Vision 2030," the plan sets  out policy and budgetary changes to be implemented over the next  15 years in the hope of making the kingdom less reliant on  crude.   "They are dealing with a lot of internal struggles in the  kingdom. Vision 2030 is about broadcasting to the growing youth  population that they will have a future in the kingdom and that future  is going include less of a reliance on oil," said Strafor's  Hawthorne.  "Al-Naimi presided over the kingdom during a time when it was OK for oil to be  the absolute bread and butter for the kingdom and now Saudi  Arabia is going to embark on the different path…it makes  sense to have a different head."  ClipperData's commodity research director, Matt Smith, said  that country's move also signaled the growing prominence and  power of deputy crown prince Mohammed bin Salman, who is  leading the economic overhaul.  "He's sending a message that they are making these decisions; they can make these calls on a more regular basis when needed," Smith told CNBC's "Squawk Box." U.S. WTI light, sweet crude  oil was up 1.7 percent at $45.43 a barrel while Brent crude was up 1.1 percent at $45.88 a barrel on Monday afternoon in Asia, as a huge  wildfire in Canada was estimated to have cut daily production capacity by  over 1 million barrels a day.Follow CNBC International  on Twitter and Facebook.