  Longstanding tensions between Middle Eastern rivals Saudi Arabia  and Iran will hold OPEC back from an oil production freeze as the  oil group meets in Algeria Wednesday, analysts said, underscoring  geopolitical complexities within the group.The meeting comes at a crucial juncture for oil prices that  have witnessed a pronounced downturn amid an economic slowdown,  excess supply from traditional producers as well as competition  from shale producers in the U.S. A section of the market has  hoped for a compromise between Saudi Arabia and Iran although  conflicting objectives will likely ensure barriers to any  agreement are high.   "The relations between Saudi Arabia and Iran are just so, so poor  I can't see any scenario under which Saudi Arabia would cut  without Iran freezing and Iran has said so consistently that they  just will not freeze until they reach pre-sanctions levels," BMI  Research 's oil and gas analyst, Emma Richards, told CNBC  recently.   Fitch Group's research arm BMI Research was not expecting an agreement on the production freeze at the informal meeting on  the back of the conflicts within OPEC, with tensions between  Saudi Arabia and Iran the "main impediment" to a deal, the house  said in a recent report. Iran is producing 3.6 million barrels of crude oil a  day—under its 4 million barrels a day target, making it  OPEC's third largest oil producer after Saudi and Iraq.The two countries, contended BMI Research, were vying for  religious and regional political hegemony, facing each other  through proxy conflicts in Syria, Yemen, Iraq, Lebanon and  Bahrain.  "We're talking about a long-term i.e. 1,400-year chasm between  the Sunni side and the Shia side. OPEC has only been around for  60 years so what we're looking at now is the greatest chasm  between the Sunni side of OPEC and the Shia side of OPEC,"  Stephen Schork, Editor of the Schork report told CNBC's "Squawk  Box".   The rivalry has implications for the oil market, which has  already witnessed the failure of 14 OPEC members agreeing on a production freeze in April.With Saudi's economy under siege from the prolonged slump in oil  prices, there was no reason why the oil giant would cede  market share if Iran did not commit to a compromise, said Schork. This was particularly true as a newly-emboldened  Iran that was fresh out of sanctions "has some pretty aggressive  hegemonic designs over the region," Schork said.   Oil prices were flat on Wednesday in Asia after  falling in the last session after Saudi  Arabia dashed  hopes of a deal this time. The benchmark U.S. crude oil futures contract was  trading around $44.65 a barrel while European Brent was around  $46 a barrel midday in Asia.After mixed signals by various countries in the weeks leading up  to the meeting, Saudi energy minister Khalid al-Falih finally doused expectations of a deal on Tuesday when he said differences  in opinions between OPEC countries were narrowing but that he  didn't expect an agreement from the meetings on Wednesday.Most analysts were already expecting as much, shrugging off the next OPEC meet as nothing  more than rhetoric. A CNBC oil survey found 65 percent of  respondents saying no OPEC agreement was likely.   "We are always a little skeptical of announcements like these.  There has been a consistent pattern over the last few months of  OPEC ministers attempting to 'talk up' prices with comments about  a potential output freeze deal being close. But historically most  of these comments have proved to be unfounded," wrote Capital  Economics economist Simon Macadam in a note published on  Monday.  There may still be an upside nonetheless, should a surprise   deal come about, which would be a boost to prices.  Fifty-two percent of respondent in CNBC's survey said if  producers could strike a deal, there would be a meaningful effect  on crude prices.  Follow CNBC International on Twitter and Facebook.