Scatec Solar secures 47 MW in Ukraine 
06072018

0942
SolarScatec Solar has entered into agreements with Rengy Development securing projects with capacity of 47 MW in the Mykolaiv region in the south of Ukraine.The projects will be realized under the country's Feed-in-Tariff scheme and the three plants are expected to produce about 58 GWh per year. Public land will be leased for an extended time-period and the plants are expected to deliver power also beyond the 10-year Feed-in-tariff period.
 
Rengy Development is one of the largest developers and independent solar power producers in Ukraine. It was established in 2009 and has to date developed, built and commissioned a 70 MW portfolio of solar power plants in Ukraine.
 
Total capex for the projects is estimated to Euro 52 million. The project finance process has been initiated with the European Bank of Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) in lead. Financial close and construction start is expected later in 2018 with commercial operation during 2019.
 
"We are very happy to partner with a strong local player as Rengy Development to further strengthen our position in Ukraine. Rengy Development brings a solid track record in solar in Ukraine to the project ensuring efficient realization. We see continued strong commitment by the Ukrainian government to secure growth of clean energy in the country", says CEO Raymond Carlsen who signed the agreement and visited Kiev this week.
 
Scatec Solar will own 51% of the projects and Rengy Development will own the balance. Scatec Solar will be the Engineering, Procurement and Construction (EPC) provider and provide Operation & Maintenance as well as Asset Management services to the power plants.
 
With this agreement Scatec Solar has so far secured 130 MW of projects under the Feed-in-Tariff scheme in Ukraine.
Source: scatecsolar.com
The projects will be realized under the country's Feed-in-Tariff scheme and the three plants are expected to produce about 58 GWh per year. Public land will be leased for an extended time-period and the plants are expected to deliver power also beyond the 10-year Feed-in-tariff period. Rengy Development is one of the largest developers and independent solar power producers in Ukraine. It was established in 2009 and has to date developed, built and commissioned a 70 MW portfolio of solar power plants in Ukraine. Total capex for the projects is estimated to Euro 52 million. The project finance process has been initiated with the European Bank of Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) in lead. Financial close and construction start is expected later in 2018 with commercial operation during 2019. "We are very happy to partner with a strong local player as Rengy Development to further strengthen our position in Ukraine. Rengy Development brings a solid track record in solar in Ukraine to the project ensuring efficient realization. We see continued strong commitment by the Ukrainian government to secure growth of clean energy in the country", says CEO Raymond Carlsen who signed the agreement and visited Kiev this week. Scatec Solar will own 51% of the projects and Rengy Development will own the balance. Scatec Solar will be the Engineering, Procurement and Construction (EPC) provider and provide Operation & Maintenance as well as Asset Management services to the power plants. With this agreement Scatec Solar has so far secured 130 MW of projects under the Feed-in-Tariff scheme in Ukraine.Source: scatecsolar.com