Senvion seals 250MW India deal 
14082018

0859
WindSenvion has secured a conditional order from Continuum Wind Energy for the supply and commissioning of 108 turbines for the 250MW Bhuj wind project in the Gujaratstate in northwest India.The installation of the Senvion 2.3M130 turbines, with hub height of 130 metres, is expected to start in the second half of 2019 and to be completed by the beginning of 2020, Senvion said.
 
The deal includes a 20-year operations and maintenance contract.
 
Continuum Wind Energy has secured a power purchase agreement (PPA) for the project from Solar Energy Corporation of India.
 
Senvion executive director and chief sales officer David Hardy said: "This order illustrates our intent to provide optimised technological solutions for our customers and reflects our ambition to establish Senvion as trusted local partner in key countries, such as India.
 
"We want to thank Continuum for our close cooperation and the order of our 2.3M130 in India. This is a milestone for us and shows that technological pioneering and strong partnerships are key for succeeding in highly competitive markets."
Source: renews.biz
The installation of the Senvion 2.3M130 turbines, with hub height of 130 metres, is expected to start in the second half of 2019 and to be completed by the beginning of 2020, Senvion said. The deal includes a 20-year operations and maintenance contract. Continuum Wind Energy has secured a power purchase agreement (PPA) for the project from Solar Energy Corporation of India. Senvion executive director and chief sales officer David Hardy said: "This order illustrates our intent to provide optimised technological solutions for our customers and reflects our ambition to establish Senvion as trusted local partner in key countries, such as India. "We want to thank Continuum for our close cooperation and the order of our 2.3M130 in India. This is a milestone for us and shows that technological pioneering and strong partnerships are key for succeeding in highly competitive markets."Source: renews.biz