Despite a jump in crude oil prices this week, gains may be  capped by a quick ramp up in shale oil production, said an analyst  Friday. Oil prices have jumped over 20 percent since hitting  12-year lows last week and are around $34 a barrel in Asian hours on the back of reports saying that OPEC and  producers from outside the cartel would meet to discuss  production cuts. Speaking to CNBC's Capital Connection on  Friday, Citigroup's Head of Asia Commodity Research, Ivan  Szpakowski said that the shutdown of shale wells and the subsequent  support in oil prices as envisioned by Saudi Arabia is a  "questionable victory" because unlike traditional oil and gas  production, shale production can be ramped up fast.  "This production can be switched on within a matter of months; so  if prices start moving higher later this year, you'll see  shale production in the U.S. starting to increase again," he  said.  "It really caps the rally," he added without giving a price  forecast.  Despite a 70 percent decline in crude oil prices since the summer  of 2014 when the extended decline started, OPEC has refused to  cut the group's production ceiling as Saudi Arabia sticks to its strategy of pumping  more oil to squeeze out higher-cost energy  producers such as shale companies.  The plan however is taking far longer than Saudi envisioned, said  analysts, and prices hit fresh 12-year lows last week due to the  lifting of international sanctions against Iran.  Szpakowski said the house is expecting Iran to export another 300,000  barrels of oil a day in the coming months—short of the country's  own forecast of half to one million barrels a day in the first  year after sanctions.  "We don't think that's actually achievable more from a technical  standpoint. The major constraint there will be how fast they can  actually reopen the wells, get the oil pumping. And there's also  an issue of insurance; who's going to insure all of these tankers  going out to the rest of the world?"  Follow CNBC International on Twitter and Facebook.