Shell to sell upstream business in Denmark for $1.9bn 
18102018

0921
EnergyRoyal Dutch Shell, through its affiliate Shell Overseas Holdings, has reached an agreement with Norwegian Energy Company ASA (Noreco) to sell its shares in Shell Olie-og Gasudvinding Danmark B.V. (SOGU) for $1.9 billion.SOGU is a wholly-owned Shell subsidiary that holds a 36.8 per cent non-operating interest in the Danish Underground Consortium (DUC).
 
The sale is subject to regulatory approval and expected to be completed in 2019. The transaction's effective date is January 1, 2017.
 
As part of the agreement, Noreco will assume all of Shell's existing commitments and obligations, including the Tyra redevelopment and the decommissioning costs associated with the assets.
 
The sale represents production of some 67,000 boe/d (Shell share) in 2017. Under the agreement, Shell Trading and Supply and Shell Energy Europe Limited will continue to have oil and gas lifting rights from the SOGU assets for a period after completion.
 
The transaction is a share sale which means that, upon completion, local SOGU staff primarily dedicated to DUC will continue to be employed by their current entity, which will be owned by Noreco at completion.
 
This transaction has no direct impact on Shell's other businesses in Denmark. Following completion, Shell will retain a Downstream presence in Denmark through A/S Dansk Shell, which includes the Fredericia refinery. The network of Shell-branded retail stations in Denmark continues to be operated by DCC. Shell will continue to evaluate options to grow new business in Denmark if relevant opportunities present themselves.
Source: tradearabia.com
SOGU is a wholly-owned Shell subsidiary that holds a 36.8 per cent non-operating interest in the Danish Underground Consortium (DUC). The sale is subject to regulatory approval and expected to be completed in 2019. The transaction's effective date is January 1, 2017. As part of the agreement, Noreco will assume all of Shell's existing commitments and obligations, including the Tyra redevelopment and the decommissioning costs associated with the assets. The sale represents production of some 67,000 boe/d (Shell share) in 2017. Under the agreement, Shell Trading and Supply and Shell Energy Europe Limited will continue to have oil and gas lifting rights from the SOGU assets for a period after completion. The transaction is a share sale which means that, upon completion, local SOGU staff primarily dedicated to DUC will continue to be employed by their current entity, which will be owned by Noreco at completion. This transaction has no direct impact on Shell's other businesses in Denmark. Following completion, Shell will retain a Downstream presence in Denmark through A/S Dansk Shell, which includes the Fredericia refinery. The network of Shell-branded retail stations in Denmark continues to be operated by DCC. Shell will continue to evaluate options to grow new business in Denmark if relevant opportunities present themselves.Source: tradearabia.com