Shell launches oil exploration tests in Brazil 
28112017

1514
Oil MarketShell launches oil exploration tests in BrazilThe huge energy firm has started activity on its Pioneiro de Libra FPSO (Floating, Production, Storage and Offloading Unit), situated in the Santos Basin. The unit represents the first FPSO created for extended well tests featuring gas reinjection capacities.

The equipment is at 180 kilometers off the coast and can process up to 50,000 barrels of oil and four million cubic meters of gas each day. The well test is expected to assess the subsurface features of the oil reservoir during a year.

Andy Brown, Upstream Director for Shell, declared: "It's a positive step to begin this early production test at Libra, as the dynamic data will be valuable to optimise the consortium's future development plans and maximise the value we can create from this prolific field."
 
Shell owns 20% of shares in the conglomerate developing the Libra field, where they collaborate with Petrobras and Total. New oil and gas extraction data for the UK Continental Shelf (UKCS) financed by the government has been made accessible.
 
The huge energy firm has started activity on its Pioneiro de Libra FPSO (Floating, Production, Storage and Offloading Unit), situated in the Santos Basin. The unit represents the first FPSO created for extended well tests featuring gas reinjection capacities.
The equipment is at 180 kilometers off the coast and can process up to 50,000 barrels of oil and four million cubic meters of gas each day. The well test is expected to assess the subsurface features of the oil reservoir during a year.
Andy Brown, Upstream Director for Shell, declared: "It's a positive step to begin this early production test at Libra, as the dynamic data will be valuable to optimise the consortium's future development plans and maximise the value we can create from this prolific field." Shell owns 20% of shares in the conglomerate developing the Libra field, where they collaborate with Petrobras and Total. New oil and gas extraction data for the UK Continental Shelf (UKCS) financed by the government has been made accessible.
 