Shell, Eneco and Van Oord tender jointly for 760 MW of Dutch offshore wind 
14032019

1040
WindA Dutch consortium that includes oil and gas major Royal Dutch Shell Plc is participating in a tender for a couple of offshore wind farms with a combined capacity of 760 MW.More specifically, it was announced today that the Witwind consortium has tendered for the construction and operation of Hollandse Kust (zuid) III and IV off the coast of the Netherlands. In addition to Shell, the group includes local utility Eneco and marine contractor Van Oord, which has been involved in the construction of all Dutch offshore wind farms so far.
 
Van Oord said in a statement that the partners plan to build the wind parks about 20 kilometres off the coast of The Hague and begin operation in 2023. Together, they will be able to generate enough power to supply around 1 million homes.
 
"Shell wants to play an active role in the Dutch energy transition," commented Marjan van Loon, President Director Shell Netherlands.
 
Vattenfall AB said a couple of weeks ago that it had prepared "a very solid proposal" for sites III and IV of the Hollandse Kust Zuid zone. The Swedish state-owned utility was the one that won the Hollandse Kust Zuid I and II projects, of 700 MW in total, in March 2018.
Source: renewablesnow.com
More specifically, it was announced today that the Witwind consortium has tendered for the construction and operation of Hollandse Kust (zuid) III and IV off the coast of the Netherlands. In addition to Shell, the group includes local utility Eneco and marine contractor Van Oord, which has been involved in the construction of all Dutch offshore wind farms so far. Van Oord said in a statement that the partners plan to build the wind parks about 20 kilometres off the coast of The Hague and begin operation in 2023. Together, they will be able to generate enough power to supply around 1 million homes. "Shell wants to play an active role in the Dutch energy transition," commented Marjan van Loon, President Director Shell Netherlands. Vattenfall AB said a couple of weeks ago that it had prepared "a very solid proposal" for sites III and IV of the Hollandse Kust Zuid zone. The Swedish state-owned utility was the one that won the Hollandse Kust Zuid I and II projects, of 700 MW in total, in March 2018.Source: renewablesnow.com