Siemens Gamesa secures new order in Japan 
17052018

1346
WindSpanish wind turbine maker Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) has signed an agreement with Japan's Tokyu Land to supply 22 SWT-3.4-108 turbines.The turbines will be installed at two wind farms in Hokkaido, which will have a combined energy capacity of 74.8MW.
 
SGRE will manufacture nacelles and hubs at its Danish facility, while the blades will be produced in China and Denmark.

The company has also agreed to handle the operations and maintenance services at these facilities for the next two decades.
 
The turbines for the two wind farms will be delivered during 2018 and 2019.
 
"Siemens Gamesa is strongly committed to the Japanese market."

Siemens Gamesa Asia-Pacific onshore business CEO Alvaro Bilbao said: "Siemens Gamesa is strongly committed to the Japanese market. We were pioneers in this market and we have established ourselves as the leading supplier, thanks to our ability to adapt to our customers' needs."
 
Last month, SGRE secured a contract from Sembcorp Green Infra to build a 300MW wind farm in Gujarat, India.
 
The contract also included the installation of 143 SG 2.1-122 turbines at the site.
 
The Spanish firm will also provide the infrastructure required for completing the wind farm and will maintain it for a period of ten years.
 
Since 1999, SGRE has been present in the Japanese energy market and installed 188 wind turbines in the country.
 
In addition to Japan, the company's presence in the Asia-Pacific region includes China, South Korea, Indonesia, the Philippines, Thailand, Vietnam, Australia and New Zealand.
Source: power-technology.com
The turbines will be installed at two wind farms in Hokkaido, which will have a combined energy capacity of 74.8MW. SGRE will manufacture nacelles and hubs at its Danish facility, while the blades will be produced in China and Denmark.
The company has also agreed to handle the operations and maintenance services at these facilities for the next two decades. The turbines for the two wind farms will be delivered during 2018 and 2019. "Siemens Gamesa is strongly committed to the Japanese market."
Siemens Gamesa Asia-Pacific onshore business CEO Alvaro Bilbao said: "Siemens Gamesa is strongly committed to the Japanese market. We were pioneers in this market and we have established ourselves as the leading supplier, thanks to our ability to adapt to our customers' needs." Last month, SGRE secured a contract from Sembcorp Green Infra to build a 300MW wind farm in Gujarat, India. The contract also included the installation of 143 SG 2.1-122 turbines at the site. The Spanish firm will also provide the infrastructure required for completing the wind farm and will maintain it for a period of ten years. Since 1999, SGRE has been present in the Japanese energy market and installed 188 wind turbines in the country. In addition to Japan, the company's presence in the Asia-Pacific region includes China, South Korea, Indonesia, the Philippines, Thailand, Vietnam, Australia and New Zealand.Source: power-technology.com