Spain's Andalucia gives green light to 200 MW of Solarcentury projects 
21112018

0855
SolarSolarcentury has received the go-ahead from Spain's autonomous community of Andalucia for approximately 200 MW of solar projects, the UK firm said on Tuesday.The Cerrado Cabrera, El primo Aleman, Hazas de los sesenta and Los Gonzalez photovoltaic (PV) projects, each with a capacity of around 50 MW, are to be built in Alcala de Guadaira municipality, Seville province.
 
These plants are the first of a 500-MW Solarcentury pipeline in the region to achieve the ready-to-build status, and will be built with no public subsidies. They are expected to break ground in April 2019 and take 12 months to go online. Together, they should be able to produce enough electricity to power 105,000 households.
 
Seville-based engineering company Texla is a partner in the development of the four schemes, Solarcentury said in its press release. Recently, the UK firm received the Environmental Impact Declaration from Spain's Ministry for Ecological Transition for its 300-MWp Talayuela solar project in Extremadura, Solarcentury noted.
Source: renewablesnow.com
The Cerrado Cabrera, El primo Aleman, Hazas de los sesenta and Los Gonzalez photovoltaic (PV) projects, each with a capacity of around 50 MW, are to be built in Alcala de Guadaira municipality, Seville province. These plants are the first of a 500-MW Solarcentury pipeline in the region to achieve the ready-to-build status, and will be built with no public subsidies. They are expected to break ground in April 2019 and take 12 months to go online. Together, they should be able to produce enough electricity to power 105,000 households. Seville-based engineering company Texla is a partner in the development of the four schemes, Solarcentury said in its press release. Recently, the UK firm received the Environmental Impact Declaration from Spain's Ministry for Ecological Transition for its 300-MWp Talayuela solar project in Extremadura, Solarcentury noted.Source: renewablesnow.com