Spain Will Close Every Single Coal Mine by 2019 
31122018

0843
CoalSpain will stop its operations on at least 26 coal mines in 2019, putting an end to the exploitation of said mineral. The mines that will be closed can be found in the communities of Asturias, Aragon and Castilla and Leon.The closure of these mines will affect more than 2,000 workers that are part of the special regime of coal mining. The number of employees working on the coal mining industry in 1985 was 51,420. The coal in Spain is mainly used for the production of electricity from thermal power plants.
 
Spain has a commitment with the European Commission to abandon coal at the beginning of the decade, within the objectives established by the European Union (EU). Brussels had granted a final extension to a deficit economic activity that has more than 30 years of decline in Spain.
 
Only two mining companies have stated that they would like to continue with their operations, which would mean that they would have to leave and return every single help that the Spanish government is giving to this kind of companies, under the special regime of coal mining.
Source: telesurenglish.net
The closure of these mines will affect more than 2,000 workers that are part of the special regime of coal mining. The number of employees working on the coal mining industry in 1985 was 51,420. The coal in Spain is mainly used for the production of electricity from thermal power plants. Spain has a commitment with the European Commission to abandon coal at the beginning of the decade, within the objectives established by the European Union (EU). Brussels had granted a final extension to a deficit economic activity that has more than 30 years of decline in Spain. Only two mining companies have stated that they would like to continue with their operations, which would mean that they would have to leave and return every single help that the Spanish government is giving to this kind of companies, under the special regime of coal mining.Source: telesurenglish.net