Spanish giant Iberdrola had a 18.4% growth in its net profit 
16112017

1612
Electricity MarketThe Spain's huge electricity, gas and services company, Iberdrola, gained a EUR2.41 billion net profit in the third quarter of 2017, or a 18.4% increase compared with the same period last year. Bad performance from renewables output caused by low-wind resource in the country was counterweighed by better results from their global enterprises globally, having posted a 34.7% growth in the UK.

Europe's second-largest electricity company by market value, possesses Scottish Power in the UK as well. 

Still the British main profit dropped by 77 percent to EUR53 million euros during nine months to September. The experts motivate the decline due to the following reasons: the depreciation of the pound, reduced production after the shutdown of a coal-fired power plant in Scotland, a rise in regulatory charges, poorer gas sales and weaker profit margins.
 
Iberdrola made investments of about EUR3.99 billion in the first nine months of 2017, which is 31.5% more compared with the similar period last year.  Around 91% of funds were directed to networks, green energy and long-term contracted generation.

The group has 7,400 MW of new electric capacity underway, of which 2,700 MW are scheduled to be installed by the end of 2018. 
 
Iberdrola's Chairman Ignacio Galan has appealed on governments, corporations from all sectors of the economy and other stakeholders on the globe to take measures on dealing with climate change.

Galan declared: "Iberdrola has set very strong targets to reduce carbon emissions, meaning we will reduce our carbon intensity by 50% in 2030. In this sense, we have made the tough decision to close all of our fuel oil and coal-fired power plants around the world (almost 7,500 MW), and focus on renewable technologies."
Bad performance from renewables output caused by low-wind resource in the country was counterweighed by better results from their global enterprises globally, having posted a 34.7% growth in the UK.
Europe's second-largest electricity company by market value, possesses Scottish Power in the UK as well. 
Still the British main profit dropped by 77 percent to EUR53 million euros during nine months to September. The experts motivate the decline due to the following reasons: the depreciation of the pound, reduced production after the shutdown of a coal-fired power plant in Scotland, a rise in regulatory charges, poorer gas sales and weaker profit margins. Iberdrola made investments of about EUR3.99 billion in the first nine months of 2017, which is 31.5% more compared with the similar period last year.  Around 91% of funds were directed to networks, green energy and long-term contracted generation.
The group has 7,400 MW of new electric capacity underway, of which 2,700 MW are scheduled to be installed by the end of 2018.  Iberdrola's Chairman Ignacio Galan has appealed on governments, corporations from all sectors of the economy and other stakeholders on the globe to take measures on dealing with climate change.
Galan declared: "Iberdrola has set very strong targets to reduce carbon emissions, meaning we will reduce our carbon intensity by 50% in 2030. In this sense, we have made the tough decision to close all of our fuel oil and coal-fired power plants around the world (almost 7,500 MW), and focus on renewable technologies."