  Gold steadied on Monday as the dollar fell and European shares  dipped following the failure by oil producers to agree an output  freeze, which sent crude prices tumbling.  Brent  crude futures dropped as much as 7 percent as an output  freeze deal by OPEC and non-OPEC producers fell apart on Sunday  when Saudi Arabia demanded Iran join despite calls on Riyadh to  save the agreement and prop up crude prices. They were last down 0.49 percent at $42.89.  Spot gold was down 0.12 percent at $1,232.16, rebounding after a 0.5 percent loss last  week.   "Oil prices have fallen between four and five percent, dragging  equities down, and you would think to see some safe-haven buying  in gold," Citi strategist David Wilson said.   Gold prices have steadied after posting their biggest quarterly  rise in nearly 30 years in the three months to the end of March  on reduced expectations that the U.S. Federal Reserve will push  ahead with several rate rises this year.   Since its December rate rise, the Fed has slowed its expected  pace of subsequent increases in response to risks a slowdown in  the global economy could be more severe than anticipated.   "Gold prices are likely to stay supported around $1,260 in the  second quarter ahead of the Fed's rate increase, which may happen  in July," Natixis analyst Bernard Dahdah said.   Markets are pricing in only one rate increase this year but  recent upbeat economic data and hawkish comments from Federal  Reserve officials have kept investors on edge.  The Fed is unlikely to raise U.S. interest rates when it meets  later this month but seems to be on track for at least two  increases over the rest of the year, Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans said on Friday.   The dollar was down 0.22 percent against a basket of  major currencies, mostly due to a  supported  , also seen as a hedge in times of  financial uncertainty.  Assets in SPDR  Gold Trust, the world's largest gold-backed exchange-traded  fund, rose 5.64 tonnes to 812.46 tonnes on Friday, the first  increase in a week.   Hedge funds and money managers raised their bullish bets on gold  and silver in the week to April 12, U.S. Commodity Futures  Trading Commission data showed on Friday.  Higher gold prices this year have kept a lid on physical demand  in key markets, India and China.   Among other precious metals, silver futures were down 0.6 percent at $16.22 an ounce, while platinum futures fell 1.2 percent  to $977.60 and palladium futures were down 0.26 percent at $566.75.  