SSE makes offshore plea to new UK PM 
29072019

0928
WindDeveloper asks Boris Johnson to raise 2030 development target by 10GWSSE has called on UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson to raise the target for installed offshore wind capacity in the UK by 2030 to 40GW from 30GW.
 
In a letter to the Prime Minister published today, SSE chief executive Alistair Philips-Davies said raising the target will help ensure the UK meets its 2050 target of net zero carbon emissions.
 
Philips-Davies said lifting the 6GW cap on capacity awarded at this year's Contract for Difference 4 auction will be a "significant first step" towards hitting net zero targets.

The chief executive said raising the volume allocated at the next support auction will deliver "more renewable power in a way that is straightforward and cost effective for consumers".
 
Philips-Davies also used the letter to add SSE's voice to the wider industry chorus asking the government to support new onshore wind development in England.
 
"The government should take the opportunity to look at how we can provide a subsidy-free route to market for both new onshore wind energy schemes and the re-powering of existing wind farms," he wrote.
Source: renews.biz
SSE has called on UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson to raise the target for installed offshore wind capacity in the UK by 2030 to 40GW from 30GW. In a letter to the Prime Minister published today, SSE chief executive Alistair Philips-Davies said raising the target will help ensure the UK meets its 2050 target of net zero carbon emissions. Philips-Davies said lifting the 6GW cap on capacity awarded at this year's Contract for Difference 4 auction will be a "significant first step" towards hitting net zero targets.
The chief executive said raising the volume allocated at the next support auction will deliver "more renewable power in a way that is straightforward and cost effective for consumers". Philips-Davies also used the letter to add SSE's voice to the wider industry chorus asking the government to support new onshore wind development in England. "The government should take the opportunity to look at how we can provide a subsidy-free route to market for both new onshore wind energy schemes and the re-powering of existing wind farms," he wrote.Source: renews.biz