Statoil Enters Polish Offshore Market 
19032018

1715
WindStatoil says it will play a primary role in the development of Poland's first offshore wind park after inking an accord with Polenergia to buy a stake in two project developments in the Baltic Sea.Statoil is set to obtain a 50 percent stake in Baltyk Srodkowy III (BSIII) and Baltyk Srodkowy II (BSII), which will have a total capacity of 1200 MW. Statoil will manage the development, construction and functionality of the wind parks.
 
Poland has a good geographical position to develop a strong offshore wind industry. The Polish Baltic Sea has a potential development capacity of 8 GW, and up to 4 GW could become functional by 2030.
 
The BSII and BS III wind sites will be situated in the Baltic Sea, 27 and 40 km from the port of Leba. The business deal with Polenergia is subject to regulatory improvements in Poland.
 
Irene Rummelhoff, executive vice president of New Energy Solutions in Statoil, declared: "We are entering a market with growth potential through two of the most advanced offshore wind developments in Poland. The country is well-placed to develop a strong offshore wind industry that would create jobs and value in one of the most dynamic parts of the European markets. Following a dramatic reduction in cost for offshore wind, we are looking forward to work with our new partner, the Polish authorities and the Polish supply chain to advance offshore wind as a competitive source of energy and industry."
Statoil is set to obtain a 50 percent stake in Baltyk Srodkowy III (BSIII) and Baltyk Srodkowy II (BSII), which will have a total capacity of 1200 MW. Statoil will manage the development, construction and functionality of the wind parks. Poland has a good geographical position to develop a strong offshore wind industry. The Polish Baltic Sea has a potential development capacity of 8 GW, and up to 4 GW could become functional by 2030. The BSII and BS III wind sites will be situated in the Baltic Sea, 27 and 40 km from the port of Leba. The business deal with Polenergia is subject to regulatory improvements in Poland. Irene Rummelhoff, executive vice president of New Energy Solutions in Statoil, declared: "We are entering a market with growth potential through two of the most advanced offshore wind developments in Poland. The country is well-placed to develop a strong offshore wind industry that would create jobs and value in one of the most dynamic parts of the European markets. Following a dramatic reduction in cost for offshore wind, we are looking forward to work with our new partner, the Polish authorities and the Polish supply chain to advance offshore wind as a competitive source of energy and industry."