Statkraft to add 500 MW of wind power in Brazil - report 
22102019

0934
WindNorwegian state-owned energy company Statkraft AS plans to invest roughly BRL 2 billion (USD 482.6m/EUR 432.7m) in the development of nearly 500 MW of wind projects in Brazil.Statkraft's president Fernando de Lapuerta unveiled this to Reuters after the positive results for the company in the latest Brazilian energy tender. Statkraft sold 375.6 MW of energy from the Santa Eugenia and Serra de Mangabeira wind projects. The remaining output will be negotiated directly with clients in the country's free market, Lapuerta has said.
 
Statkraft intends to commence power supply as early as 2022. Under the tender's guidelines, the projects are obliged to start power generation by January 1, 2025.
 
The company is currently in talks with banks for financing alternatives as well as with potential equipment suppliers.
 
In September, Statkraft announced its intentions to quadruple its installed renewable energy capacity in Brazil over the next five years. According to Lapuerta, the company continues looking at both wind and solar acquisition opportunities.
Source: renewablesnow.com
Statkraft's president Fernando de Lapuerta unveiled this to Reuters after the positive results for the company in the latest Brazilian energy tender. Statkraft sold 375.6 MW of energy from the Santa Eugenia and Serra de Mangabeira wind projects. The remaining output will be negotiated directly with clients in the country's free market, Lapuerta has said. Statkraft intends to commence power supply as early as 2022. Under the tender's guidelines, the projects are obliged to start power generation by January 1, 2025. The company is currently in talks with banks for financing alternatives as well as with potential equipment suppliers. In September, Statkraft announced its intentions to quadruple its installed renewable energy capacity in Brazil over the next five years. According to Lapuerta, the company continues looking at both wind and solar acquisition opportunities.Source: renewablesnow.com