Study shows Lithuania can build 3.35 GW of offshore wind 
25072019

0938
RenewableLithuania can build up to 3.35 GW of offshore wind farms in its portion of the Baltic Sea, shows a study commissioned by the Ministry of Energy.According to preliminary estimates, the first such wind parks could be up and running by 2030.
 
The study, carried out by the Marine Research Institute of Klaipeda University, sought to identify the marine territories most suitable for offshore wind project development. In a press release last week, the energy ministry noted that the realisation of the maximum possible capacity of 3.35 GW will depend on infrastructure and financial development conditions.
 
The ministry will use the study as the basis for future work on offshore wind. The Lithuanian Energy Agency (LEA) can now start preparing a special plan for the territory and a strategic environmental impact assessment (EIA). The research conducted so far and the modelling results will also be useful in the feasibility study for connecting the park to the onshore grid.
 
Lithuania will at a later stage propose the marine territories and the power capacities to be developed, ahead of the launch of its first offshore wind tenders.
Source: renewablesnow.com
According to preliminary estimates, the first such wind parks could be up and running by 2030. The study, carried out by the Marine Research Institute of Klaipeda University, sought to identify the marine territories most suitable for offshore wind project development. In a press release last week, the energy ministry noted that the realisation of the maximum possible capacity of 3.35 GW will depend on infrastructure and financial development conditions. The ministry will use the study as the basis for future work on offshore wind. The Lithuanian Energy Agency (LEA) can now start preparing a special plan for the territory and a strategic environmental impact assessment (EIA). The research conducted so far and the modelling results will also be useful in the feasibility study for connecting the park to the onshore grid. Lithuania will at a later stage propose the marine territories and the power capacities to be developed, ahead of the launch of its first offshore wind tenders.
Source: renewablesnow.com