TANAP marks 1 bln cubic meters gas milestone to Turkey 
21022019

0849
Natural GasThe Trans Anatolian Natural Gas Pipeline Project (TANAP) transferred more than one billion cubic meters of natural gas to Turkey since its launch at the end of June 2018, Azerbaijan's President Ilham Aliyev announced Wednesday.The 3,500-kilometer-long project is one of the biggest in the world with an investment volume of around $40 billion.
 
Aliyev said the last leg of the Southern Gas Corridor, the Trans Adriatic Pipeline (TAP), is 85 percent completed. He also advised that the other three legs of the SGC, namely the development of Azerbaijan's Shah Deniz-2 oil field, South Caucasus Pipeline and TANAP have been constructed.
 
He noted that Azerbaijan has 2.3 trillion cubic meters of proved natural gas reserves, in which the European energy market could avail of as a new supply source.
 
TANAP, the biggest chain of the Corridor at a length of 1,850 kilometers, has a capacity of 16 billion cubic meters of natural gas.
 
Turkey will receive 6 billion cubic meters via TANAP while 10 billion cubic meters of natural gas will be sent to Europe via TAP.
 
TAP is expected to be ready to send first gas by 2020.
Source: aa.com.tr
The 3,500-kilometer-long project is one of the biggest in the world with an investment volume of around $40 billion. Aliyev said the last leg of the Southern Gas Corridor, the Trans Adriatic Pipeline (TAP), is 85 percent completed. He also advised that the other three legs of the SGC, namely the development of Azerbaijan's Shah Deniz-2 oil field, South Caucasus Pipeline and TANAP have been constructed. He noted that Azerbaijan has 2.3 trillion cubic meters of proved natural gas reserves, in which the European energy market could avail of as a new supply source. TANAP, the biggest chain of the Corridor at a length of 1,850 kilometers, has a capacity of 16 billion cubic meters of natural gas. Turkey will receive 6 billion cubic meters via TANAP while 10 billion cubic meters of natural gas will be sent to Europe via TAP. TAP is expected to be ready to send first gas by 2020.Source: aa.com.tr