  After oil touched $50 per barrel for the first time since  November, investors remain focused on the potential  outcome of this week's OPEC meeting in Vienna. However, one of  Wall Street's most closely followed analysts has a clear message:  The event is meaningless. "I see nothing of consequence that will be discussed at this  meeting," Tom Kloza said Tuesday on CNBC's "Futures Now."The global head of energy analysis at the Oil Price Information  Service is adamant that no progress was made between Saudi Arabia  and Iran during OPEC's last gathering in Doha, Qatar. Therefore,  he believes that the table is not set for any sort of  announcement regarding a freeze or cut in June. Read MoreStocks set for big, but short, rally of 5 to 10 percent: Analyst"One can argue that OPEC is no longer a cartel, at least in the  classic sense of a cartel having influence over supply and  prices," noted Kloza in a note. So, with OPEC irrelevant in  Kloza's eyes, he has turned his attention to the Federal Reserve as a key  factor regarding the price of oil. "There's no question that higher interest rates and less easy  money are going to complicate the oil business," he said on "Futures Now."  The analyst believes that those who closely follow movement of  the dollar have the greatest impact on where crude prices head. "If  you look at oil trading each day, everything is front-end loaded  each month," said Kloza, who believes that traders, not  refiners, have the most power over where oil prices go next and  therefore sees things becoming choppy in the months to  come. However, Kloza feels that the exception for a producer with a  major impact lies with Saudi Arabia. This is because Kloza  believes the kingdom could adopt a more aggressive approach  when it comes to production this year. "We're looking at a much more entrepreneurial Saudi Arabia that  wants to engage in offshore drilling joint ventures," he said. "The key will be to watch what the Saudis do in the next  few months." To offset Saudi output, Kloza sees cheap prices as helping to  keep global demand up. "We're becoming more balanced" when it  comes to the world's oil supply, he said. "The problem will come when we  get to August and we know we have enough gasoline to get through  the season." With enough gas in hand, Kloza said a surplus could drag oil  prices down as most of the additional demand in the U.S. this  year for gasoline is front-end loaded for July.   "I suspect prices will remain between $2.25 to $2.50 per gallon  in the U.S. for the next two months, but watch for downswings in  August and September," said Kloza. Regarding oil, he believes the commodity will trade on either side of $50 per  barrel for most of June. 