The TAP and TANAP pipelines were connected at the border of Greece and Turkey 
30112018

0930
Natural GasThe connection of the Trans-Adriatic Pipeline (TAP) to the Trans-Anatolian Gas Pipeline (TANAP) was successfully completed, BTA reports. The weld was carried out on the border between Greece and Turkey in the presence of representatives of the companies of the two pipelines.In an announcement by TAP it is stated that "this connection is another important moment in the realization of the Southern Gas Corridor, a new energy route that will increase energy security and the diversification of energy supplies. The Southern Corridor will transport natural gas from the Shah Deniz II field in the Caspian Sea to Turkey and then to the European markets".
 
TAP General Director Luca Skepati said the event was an important step forward and recalled that, according to the schedule, natural gas supplies to the Southern Gas Corridor for Europe should start in 2020.
 
The Transanandol Gas Pipeline passes through Azerbaijan, Georgia and Turkey, and the Trans-Adriatic Pipeline - through Greece, Albania and reaches Italy through the Adriatic.
 
Through the Greece - Bulgaria Interconnector, Bulgaria will also be able to receive natural gas from Azerbaijan via the Southern Gas Corridor.
Source: publics.bg
In an announcement by TAP it is stated that "this connection is another important moment in the realization of the Southern Gas Corridor, a new energy route that will increase energy security and the diversification of energy supplies. The Southern Corridor will transport natural gas from the Shah Deniz II field in the Caspian Sea to Turkey and then to the European markets". TAP General Director Luca Skepati said the event was an important step forward and recalled that, according to the schedule, natural gas supplies to the Southern Gas Corridor for Europe should start in 2020. The Transanandol Gas Pipeline passes through Azerbaijan, Georgia and Turkey, and the Trans-Adriatic Pipeline - through Greece, Albania and reaches Italy through the Adriatic. Through the Greece - Bulgaria Interconnector, Bulgaria will also be able to receive natural gas from Azerbaijan via the Southern Gas Corridor.Source: publics.bg