  Not everyone is a fan of the recent lifting of the U.S. oil  export ban.  "I would be very cautious for the Department of Energy to go  ahead and move forward and try to sell some oil right now," said  Bill Richardson, former U.S. energy secretary, in an interview  with CNBC on Wednesday.   "I think that's a bad idea," he told "Power Lunch." "You use the Strategic  Petroleum Reserves in emergencies ... not when you want to affect  prices."   His comments come after reports of U.S.  oil being exported to Europe for the first  time in 40 years. Congress lifted the ban in late  2015.  The House also mandated through the Budget Act that 5 million oil  barrels from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve be sold yearly until  2021. In this deal, the Department of Energy has been given  discretionary authority to begin sales this year, and it's  mandatory that sales start by 2018.   While Richardson does consider that lifting the oil export ban is favorable for geopolitical reasons, he does think that the Strategic Petroleum Reserve decision needs to be "slow[ed] down a bit," noting the current  market conditions and oil glut.   In that same vein, John Kilduff, partner at Again Capital, thinks the reserve should be "doubled."  "The way things are going for our industry, we could easily find  ourselves in a vulnerable position once again just like we were a  few years ago, when we were inputting two-thirds of our  requirements," Kilduff said Wednesday on "Power Lunch."    As analyst weighed with in their forecast of whether producers will cut output, Michael Cohen, Barclays' head of energy commodities  research, believes that the chances of OPEC cutting back are highly unlikely. "This new diplomatic tension that we are seeing between Saudi Arabia and Iran makes it even less likely," he said on "Power Lunch."  For investors still looking to bet on the energy  sector, Michael Kelly, head of  exploration and production research at Global Hunter  Securities, points to the Permian Basin.  "The Permian ... this is the best rock," he said on  "Power Lunch." "We think you get on average a 50 percent better  rate of return out of the Permian versus any other play in the  U.S."