  With ever-increasing sectarian tensions in oil-producing countries, it may be hard to believe that crude  prices are continuing to fall. But look no further than the worldwide crude glut for the reason, said Helima Croft, global head of commodity strategy at  RBC Capital.  "We had ISIS attacks on Libyan facilities last week, and the  market just shrugged it off," Croft told CNBC's "Worldwide Exchange" on Monday. "If this had been a couple of years ago and we were  having this conversation, oil would be substantially  higher."   The perception of oversupply is stronger than ever, said Croft.  "You literally need to see a physical supply disruption out of  Saudi Arabia for anyone to get excited."Global oversupply and weak demand have driven prices down since 2014,  the last time crude traded above $100 a barrel. U.S. companies  have since pulled back on exploration, and production continues  to drop.   "Last year was exceptional, we were at a five-year high for  demand and look where prices were," Croft said, noting crude  finished January 2015 at more than $50 per barrel.  U.S. oil, as measured by West Texas Intermediate crude, dipped  below $32 per barrel in late-morning trading Monday, hitting fresh 12-year  lows. WTI lost more than 10 percent last week and about  70 percent since June 2014. Read MorePain to gain: Crude prices to triple?  Croft said Middle Eastern producers were expecting to see prices bounce back by now.  "They did not expect we'd be in this price environment with U.S.  production slowing," she said. "The Saudis are taking on  austerity measures to try and endure lower for longer."  Saudi Arabia is bracing for the "lower for longer" environment in  its 2016 budget, released by the kingdom's Ministry of Finance  last week. The country is fighting record deficits and  introducing reforms to ride out the low-price environment.   OPEC shows no sign of a slowdown  in production overseas. But Croft said dialogue surrounding the  issue might be overblown.   "I don't think there are a million additional barrels out of  OPEC," Croft said. "I think the Iranians can maybe do 375,000 to  500,000, but I don't think OPEC is going to produce the type of  gains we saw last year."  The question now is, how low will oil go? Goldman Sachs predicted  as low as $20 a barrel in September, which Croft said is a  possible bottom, but not likely.  "I think we could certainly in a bad macro headline crash through  30 into the 20s," Croft said, referring to Goldman's prediction.  But given that U.S. production is coming down, and demand has not  gone over the cliff yet, Croft said, "I don't think so."  