  This isn't the June that traders were hoping for.  A bevy of big events were supposed to move markets this month, including a European Central Bank meeting, an OPEC summit, a key employment report, a  long-awaited Fed decision and a series of Grecian  deadlines.   Rather, the markets have felt more like the Grecian urn that  poet John Keats made famous: "Thou still unravish'd bride of  quietness/Thou foster-child of silence and slow time."  In the words of macro strategist Neil Azous of Rareview Macro, there's been a  "rolling crash in equity volatility."  Since the end of May,  30-day realized volatility (a  measure of the size of recent moves) has fallen by 16 percent.  And over the past five months, that measure of volatility has  been sliced in half.  Traders don't expect big moves ahead, either. The CBOE Volatility  Index, which uses options prices to measure expected future  volatility, has tumbled to 12, which is just about the lowest the  VIX has been since June of last year.  Further, the volatility "crash" isn't contained to the overall  market. Over the past week, 40 of the 41 ETFs tracked by Jim  Strugger at MKM Partners have seen three-month at-the-money  implied volatility drop. That means investors are now paying less  for options on those ETFs, likely since they now expect to see  smaller-magnitude moves over the next three months. (The  exception, by the way, was the natural gas ETF UNG.)  "The trend in volatility was clearly lower," Strugger wrote.The development is bad news for traders, who benefit from  large moves. But for long-term investors, who should prefer  moderate gains over time rather than stomach-wrenching pops and  drops, the trend is a positive. Large moves famously threaten to engender mistakes on the part of inexperienced investors. The temptation to sell after a slide is strong, as is the urge to disrupt one's asset allocation by getting all-in to stocks at the highs.  With a slow 3 percent grind higher in the S&P 500 over the past six months, it has actually been a pretty good year for those who like to see their long-term  holdings move slowly in the right direction.  And most traders don't see volatility coming back in a real way  anytime soon.  "Over the next month or two months, is there something to be  worried about? I don't think so. So I'm not exactly sure what a  driver of higher vol would be," Azous said.Want to be part of the Trading Nation? If you'd like to call into our live  Monday show, email your name, number and question to  TradingNation@cnbc.com.