Total invests in solar, EREN and GreenFlex, aiming renewables growth 
20092017

1336
RenewableTotal increases its share in renewables by investing in solar and wind energy producer EREN RE and energy efficiency company GreenFlex. 
 
Due to high pressure on oil prices in the last 2 years, a rising number of Europe's oil giants get into renewable energy to search for new sources of income. 
 
Even though Total already owns a 23 percent stake in renewables firm EREN RE acquired for 237.5 million euros ($285 million), it intends to take over the full control package.
 
Total is in the process of buying GreenFlex, which is a company focused on identifying efficient ways of energy usage, expecting to earn around 350 million euros by the end of 2017. 
 
French giant has not disclosed the value and terms of the deal so far but mentioned that GreenFlex is to be the Total's central element in the energy efficiency sector. 
 
The president of Total's gas, renewables and power units stated that purchasing the EREN RE's 23% stake will speed up the company's expansion in renewables.
 
The deal with EREN RE will facilitate the achievement of Total's objective to reach 5 GW of built up capacity in five years. 
 
A year ago, Total's start-up ventures unit acquired a stake in United Wind, a wind turbine maker. At the same time, the company made known about its intention to install solar panels at 5,000 service stations.  
 
  Due to high pressure on oil prices in the last 2 years, a rising number of Europe's oil giants get into renewable energy to search for new sources of income.  Even though Total already owns a 23 percent stake in renewables firm EREN RE acquired for 237.5 million euros ($285 million), it intends to take over the full control package. Total is in the process of buying GreenFlex, which is a company focused on identifying efficient ways of energy usage, expecting to earn around 350 million euros by the end of 2017.  French giant has not disclosed the value and terms of the deal so far but mentioned that GreenFlex is to be the Total's central element in the energy efficiency sector.  The president of Total's gas, renewables and power units stated that purchasing the EREN RE's 23% stake will speed up the company's expansion in renewables. The deal with EREN RE will facilitate the achievement of Total's objective to reach 5 GW of built up capacity in five years.  A year ago, Total's start-up ventures unit acquired a stake in United Wind, a wind turbine maker. At the same time, the company made known about its intention to install solar panels at 5,000 service stations.  
 