Total on course for new Nigerian oil, LNG projects 
22012019

0917
Energy MarketFrench oil group, Total, said it will approve plans to proceed with the Ikike project in Nigeria in the coming months. The firm also plans to expand its liquefied natural gas (LNG) project in the country, CEO Patrick Pouyanne said yesterday.Total is one of the strongest players in the African oil sector, holding more proven reserves on the continent than any of the other top global oil companies.
 
The 60,000 barrels-per-day (bpd) Ikike project is one of several projects the group has earmarked in Nigeria for a final investment decision (FID), including the 70,000 bpd deepwater Preowei project, which would help Total increase its oil production.
 
Pouyanne called on Nigeria to issue new exploration licences, saying the country's oil and gas sector had been dormant in recent years in terms of exploration and new projects due to uncertainties and the ongoing discussions over Nigeria's oil industry regulation.
 
Total is also developing Uganda's first oilfield with China's CNOOC and Pouyanne said the company would make a final investment decision this year on whether to start production. Uganda has said it expects to start producing oil in 2021.
Source: energymixreport.com
Total is one of the strongest players in the African oil sector, holding more proven reserves on the continent than any of the other top global oil companies. The 60,000 barrels-per-day (bpd) Ikike project is one of several projects the group has earmarked in Nigeria for a final investment decision (FID), including the 70,000 bpd deepwater Preowei project, which would help Total increase its oil production. Pouyanne called on Nigeria to issue new exploration licences, saying the country's oil and gas sector had been dormant in recent years in terms of exploration and new projects due to uncertainties and the ongoing discussions over Nigeria's oil industry regulation. Total is also developing Uganda's first oilfield with China's CNOOC and Pouyanne said the company would make a final investment decision this year on whether to start production. Uganda has said it expects to start producing oil in 2021.Source: energymixreport.com