Total and ADNOC launch unconventional gas exploration in Abu Dhabi 
12112018

1116
LNGTotal has announced that it has signed a concession agreement with Abu Dhabi National Oil Co. (ADNOC) to launch an unconventional gas exploration program in the high potential Diyab play that spreads over 6000 km2 to the west of the ADNOC Onshore concession in Abu Dhabi.According to the statement, the concession allows for exploration and appraisal phases for a period of up to seven years, followed by a period of development and production over 40 years. Total will operate the exploration phase of this new concession with a 40% interest. ADNOC, meanwhile, will hold the other 60% interest. In case of positive exploration, Total claims that this multi trillion ft3 opportunity will be developed in stages in line with the growing gas demand in the UAE and potential export opportunities.
 
Total claims that this concession agreement comes as a result of close cooperation with ADNOC in looking at ways to unlock unconventional gas potential in Abu Dhabi.
 
Patrick Pouyanne, the Chairman and CEO of Total, said: "We are pleased to be the first international company to pioneer unconventional gas exploration in Abu Dhabi alongside ADNOC. This agreement consolidates our longstanding and strategic relationship in a country and region that we know well. We are committed to supporting the UAE in meeting its ambitions to unlock this significant unconventional gas resource.
 
"The Diyab play has the potential to be a high impact play ranking alongside the most prolific North American shale gas plays, and is an excellent addition to our exploration portfolio."
Source: lngindustry.com
According to the statement, the concession allows for exploration and appraisal phases for a period of up to seven years, followed by a period of development and production over 40 years. Total will operate the exploration phase of this new concession with a 40% interest. ADNOC, meanwhile, will hold the other 60% interest. In case of positive exploration, Total claims that this multi trillion ft3 opportunity will be developed in stages in line with the growing gas demand in the UAE and potential export opportunities. Total claims that this concession agreement comes as a result of close cooperation with ADNOC in looking at ways to unlock unconventional gas potential in Abu Dhabi. Patrick Pouyanne, the Chairman and CEO of Total, said: "We are pleased to be the first international company to pioneer unconventional gas exploration in Abu Dhabi alongside ADNOC. This agreement consolidates our longstanding and strategic relationship in a country and region that we know well. We are committed to supporting the UAE in meeting its ambitions to unlock this significant unconventional gas resource. "The Diyab play has the potential to be a high impact play ranking alongside the most prolific North American shale gas plays, and is an excellent addition to our exploration portfolio."Source: lngindustry.com