U.S. government debt prices were mostly higher on Monday as  investors digested the results of a note sale and comments from  Federal Reserve Vice Chairman Stanley Fischer.   The Treasury Department auctioned $26 billion of two-year notes  at a high yield of 1.085 percent, its highest level since  December 2009. The bid-to-cover ratio, an indicator of demand,  was 2.73, in-line with a recent average.  Indirect bidders, which include major central banks, were awarded  35.8 percent, well below a recent average of 45 percent. Direct  bidders, which include domestic money managers, bought 13.4  percent, also below a recent average of 16 percent.    Following the sale, the yield on the  reversed to tick higher, near 1.077 percent.  The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury notes, which moves  inversely to price, was lower at around 2.334 percent, while the  yield on the 30-year Treasury bond was also lower at 3.002 percent.   Treasury yields were lower on Monday after hitting their highest  levels in a year following Donald Trump's suprise White House  victory.  "When you get a knee-jerk reaction, it's not surprising to see a  pullback," said Greg Woodard, managing director of fixed income  at Manning & Napier. "Having said that, there is a trend for  higher fiscal stimulus around the world, and that is supportive  of higher yields."  There are no significant data releases concerning the U.S. due on  Monday.  Also, Fischer said in a speech that fiscal adjustments could  support years of accommodative monetary policy. "Certain  fiscal policies, particularly those that increase productivity,  can increase the potential of the economy and help confront some  of our longer-term economic challenges," he said.  Oil prices were higher as a result of renewed optimism  that OPEC could  agree on a production cut after Russian President Vladimir Putin  commented that there are few hurdles for the producer cartel to  clear in order to reach a deal, according to Reuters.  In oil markets, Brent crude traded at around $49.07 a  barrel on Monday, up 4.72 percent, while U.S. crude was  around $47.73 a barrel, up 4.46 percent.  — CNBC's Fred Imbert contributed to this  report.