Turkmenistan will allocate $93 billion to oil and gas industry 
11102017

1543
Natural GasThe President of Turkmenistan Gurbanguly Berdymukhammedov declared its intention to allocate $93 billion to encourage the country's oil and gas industry, which has been negatively affected by small world prices and Russia's decreasing demand.   
The President of Turkmenistan Gurbanguly Berdymukhammedov declared its intention to allocate $93 billion to encourage the country's oil and gas industry, which has been negatively affected by small world prices and Russia's decreasing demand.  
 
In his speech he stressed that in the following seven years an amount of 240 billion manats would be invested. 
 
He expressly noted that the oil-and-gas complex would receive 159 billion manats.
 
Turkmenistan possesses the fourth-largest gas reserves in the world. Recently its gas output has begun to vitally rely on China's demand after Russia ceased to buy the Turkmen gas in 2016.  
 
The president of Turkmenistan was explicit in telling that very soon his country would commence manufacturing electric vehicles aiming to diversify the hydrocarbon-dependent economy.
 
In addition, the leader of the nation stated that it is a high time to economise and manage funds efficiently. 
 The President of Turkmenistan Gurbanguly Berdymukhammedov declared its intention to allocate $93 billion to encourage the country's oil and gas industry, which has been negatively affected by small world prices and Russia's decreasing demand.   In his speech he stressed that in the following seven years an amount of 240 billion manats would be invested.  He expressly noted that the oil-and-gas complex would receive 159 billion manats. Turkmenistan possesses the fourth-largest gas reserves in the world. Recently its gas output has begun to vitally rely on China's demand after Russia ceased to buy the Turkmen gas in 2016.   The president of Turkmenistan was explicit in telling that very soon his country would commence manufacturing electric vehicles aiming to diversify the hydrocarbon-dependent economy. In addition, the leader of the nation stated that it is a high time to economise and manage funds efficiently. 