Turkey preps for next 1-GW solar tender 
25112019

0919
SolarTurkey plans to launch in December its next solar tender, in which it will seek to award 1 GW of capacity across smaller projects in a limited number of provinces, deputy energy minister Abdullah Tancan has announced.The deadline for bids will be in April 2020, Tancan said at an event organised by the Association of Solar Energy Investors (GUYAD) earlier in November. The plan is to award between 10 MW and 50 MW in 39 provinces with high solar radiation and good conditions for renewable energy development.
 
At the start of this year, Turkey cancelled a tender for three big solar projects with a combined capacity of 1 GW. This was its second big solar tender under the Renewable Energy Resources Zones (YEKA) programme. The first one in 2017 was won by the Kalyon - Hanwha Group consortium. Just recently it was announced that China Electronics Technology Group Corporation has replaced Hanwha as Kalyon Enerji's partner in the project, which, in addition to the power generation capacity, has a local manufacturing capacity component.
 
Turkey is also designing new incentive mechanisms for renewable energy after 2021. More information will likely be available in 2020, Tancan said.
Source: renewablesnow.com
The deadline for bids will be in April 2020, Tancan said at an event organised by the Association of Solar Energy Investors (GUYAD) earlier in November. The plan is to award between 10 MW and 50 MW in 39 provinces with high solar radiation and good conditions for renewable energy development. At the start of this year, Turkey cancelled a tender for three big solar projects with a combined capacity of 1 GW. This was its second big solar tender under the Renewable Energy Resources Zones (YEKA) programme. The first one in 2017 was won by the Kalyon - Hanwha Group consortium. Just recently it was announced that China Electronics Technology Group Corporation has replaced Hanwha as Kalyon Enerji's partner in the project, which, in addition to the power generation capacity, has a local manufacturing capacity component. Turkey is also designing new incentive mechanisms for renewable energy after 2021. More information will likely be available in 2020, Tancan said.Source: renewablesnow.com