  U.S. crude rose nearly 2 percent Monday, recovering slightly  after moving within a hair of 11-year lows, as record short  interest led to technical covering on fears that the market  declined too quickly.  Early in the day, both Brent and U.S. crude futures fell by as much as 4 percent to  their lowest levels since the start of the 2008 financial crisis,  before paring losses on some short covering. At the close, U.S. crude was up 69 cents, or 1.94 percent, to $36.31 a barrel.  John Kilduff, partner at Again Capital, said the market  might have found a bottom. "We had gone so far so  fast that it was just time," he said.  However, Kilduff said he expects crude to near lows again in late  February when the Spring refinery maintenance season gets under  way. At Monday's close, Brent futures were down 0.45 percent, at $37.76 a  barrel.   Earlier in the session, Brent traded just 13 cents above the  $36.20 low set in December 2008. Below that level, Brent would be  at its lowest since July 2004 — a year when oil was  rebounding from single-digits lows hit during the 1998 financial  crisis and when talk of a commodities super-cycle was just  beginning.  "If you look at a 10-year chart, I think what you'll see is going  back to 2008, that December low of $32.40, that's going to be the  next big level to watch here," Mike Harris, president  of Campbell & Co., told CNBC on Monday. "If we get  through there, then you know the $30 psychological level will be  the next big level for the market to breach."   OPEC has been pumping near record levels since last year in an  attempt to drive higher-cost producers such as U.S. shale firms  out of the market. U.S. output has fallen though not by much,  while production from Russia — another big non-OPEC player — has  risen.  OPEC supply is likely to increase by 1 million barrels per day  next year, Morgan Stanley said in a research note.  "Almost the entirety of added supplies in 2016 will come from  Iran, Iraq and Saudi," it said.  Iran has promised to ramp up supply once nuclear-related  sanctions are lifted on its crude exports. Tehran is expected to  raise crude and condensates exports by as much as 700,000 bpd by the end of 2016.    "The news on the supply side continues to be that there's  a glut out there. IEA on  Friday saying that  the oil glut will last until at least late 2016," Harris  said on "Fast  Money: Halftime Report." "Then you have the Iran deputy oil minister  throwing oil on the fire, so to speak, with his comment about  absolutely no chance of delaying the output  increase."   Harris said as long as the price trend continues to the  downside, he'll continue to stay short oil. — CNBC's Ritika Shah contributed to this article.