U.S. crude oil pared some of its earlier losses after diving more than 3 percent on Tuesday to a more than three-year low, as  Saudi Arabia's sharp cut in export prices to the United States  looked likely to deepen a global supply glut that has already  driven prices down 30 percent since June.  On Monday, Saudi Arabia surprised the market by raising prices  for Asia and Europe but cutting prices for U.S. customers. Oil  slid as much as $2 a barrel in late trade, and the sell-off  continued Tuesday, triggering technical sell-stops.  "The Saudis have basically declared war on the U.S. oil  producers," said Phil Flynn at Price Futures Group. "I think they  believe that the only way they're going to survive in the long  term is to break the market in the short term." Read MoreEuropean shares tick higher, oil majors  under pressure   U.S. crude futures settled down $1.59 a barrel at $77.19 after reaching the  lowest price since October 2011.  Many analysts say the U.S. shale boom could slow if crude stays  below $80 a barrel.  The price of  for next-month delivery was also down more than $2 a barrel to trade below $83 after touching its lowest  point since October 2010.  On Monday, longer-dated oil futures became more expensive than  near-term contracts, putting charts into a contango structure for  the first time since Jan. 17. On Tuesday, the Dec/Jan spread was  around minus 8.  U.S. commercial crude stocks are likely to have risen last week  in the fifth straight weekly stock build, according to a survey  by Reuters. Industry data from the American Petroleum Institute  is due out at 4:30 EDT, with government data due  Wednesday morning. No OPEC consensus  The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries meets Nov. 27, but there are no clear signs  that it will curb output. Most core Gulf members have indicated  little alarm over the price drop. Read More  The United Arab Emirates oil minister said the country is "not  panicking." Venezuela and Ecuador have said they are working on a  joint proposal to defend oil prices.  "I can see OPEC and Saudi Arabia playing the long game. A low  price for a period of time may actually play into the hands of  people with a lot of reserves in the ground at cheap cost,"  Pierre Lorinet, chief financial officer of Trafigura, said at the  Reuters Global Commodities Summit.  Ian Taylor, chief executive of Vitol, said at the Reuters summit  that OPEC members would have "serious discussions" about an  output cut. Read MoreIs the crude market calling Saudi  Arabia's bluff?  "My feeling is we're underestimating now the possibility of OPEC  cutting," he said.  Saudi Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi has not commented publicly on the  oil market since September. On Wednesday, he will meet  Venezuela's foreign minister Rafael Ramirez, also the head of its  OPEC delegation, according to a person close to the Saudi  delegation.