UK confirms auctions for offshore wind and remote island projects 
24072018

0844
WindThe UK Government has announced a major boost for wind energy that is expected to power up to four million homes.Energy and Clean Growth Minister Claire Perry has confirmed clean energy auctions will be held every two years from 2019, with PS557 million being awarded to developers including offshore wind and for the first time, remote island wind providers.
 
The next Contracts for Difference (CfD) allocation round - which supports new renewable energy generation projects with the lowest price bids - for less established technologies will open by May next year.
 
The second CfD auction in 2017 saw the clearing price for offshore wind halve - at PS57.50/MWh in 2012 prices - compared to the first auction in 2015 and secured 3.3GW of renewable capacity.
 
Depending on the price achieved, the future auctions are expected to deliver between 1GW and 2GW of offshore wind each year in the 2020s.
 
The announcement comes ahead of the first ever annual Green Great Britain Week, which will start on 15th October 2018.
 
Ms Perry said: "The UK renewable sector is thriving, with more offshore wind capacity here than anywhere else in the world and 50% of electricity coming from low carbon sources last year in what was our greenest year ever.
 
"For the last decade, the offshore wind industry has been a great British success story: increasing productivity, raising earning and improving lives in communities across the UK and today the sector gets the certainty it needs to build on this success through the next 10 years."
 
The news follows the government's announcement to scrap the Feed-in Tariff scheme, which supports small-scale renewables, in April 2019.
 
Trade bodies and environmental groups welcomed the green auction news.
 
RenewableUK said it is a "ringing endorsement" by government of the UK's world-leading offshore wind industry.
Source: energylivenews.com
Energy and Clean Growth Minister Claire Perry has confirmed clean energy auctions will be held every two years from 2019, with PS557 million being awarded to developers including offshore wind and for the first time, remote island wind providers. The next Contracts for Difference (CfD) allocation round - which supports new renewable energy generation projects with the lowest price bids - for less established technologies will open by May next year. The second CfD auction in 2017 saw the clearing price for offshore wind halve - at PS57.50/MWh in 2012 prices - compared to the first auction in 2015 and secured 3.3GW of renewable capacity. Depending on the price achieved, the future auctions are expected to deliver between 1GW and 2GW of offshore wind each year in the 2020s. The announcement comes ahead of the first ever annual Green Great Britain Week, which will start on 15th October 2018. Ms Perry said: "The UK renewable sector is thriving, with more offshore wind capacity here than anywhere else in the world and 50% of electricity coming from low carbon sources last year in what was our greenest year ever. "For the last decade, the offshore wind industry has been a great British success story: increasing productivity, raising earning and improving lives in communities across the UK and today the sector gets the certainty it needs to build on this success through the next 10 years." The news follows the government's announcement to scrap the Feed-in Tariff scheme, which supports small-scale renewables, in April 2019. Trade bodies and environmental groups welcomed the green auction news. RenewableUK said it is a "ringing endorsement" by government of the UK's world-leading offshore wind industry.Source: energylivenews.com