Ukraine intends to increase coal imports from US as shortages appear 
25102017

1425
CoalUkraine wishes to raise coal imports tons from the US as the nation's winter coal reserves have fallen to their lowest level in three years, according to officials.DTEK, Ukraine's biggest private electricity producer, will import 150,000 metric tons of US thermal coal. This decision came after state-owned power plants concentrated on imports only of anthracite coal.
 
Vitaliy Butenko, the commercial director at DTEK Energo, said in a statement: "The stability and uninterrupted supply of coal to our thermal power plants in the face of shortages requires a serious solution". The first delivery of 75,000 metric tons of US thermal coal is scheduled to arrive later this week.

Ukraine began facing shortages of coal after its most important coal producing regions of Donetsk and Lugansk, now controlled by pro-Russian separatist groups, had stopped trade with the rest of the country in February.

The Acting head of the state-owned power grid UkrEnergo Vsevolod Kovalchuk said" Coal stocks are "not comfortable," and that the government had sketched an emergency plan to prevent power cuts during the winter, as well as additional coal supplies from the US and South Africa.
Ukraine's coal reserves at thermal power plants as of Monday declined by 29.7% year-on-year, reaching 1.112 million metric tons. 
DTEK, Ukraine's biggest private electricity producer, will import 150,000 metric tons of US thermal coal. This decision came after state-owned power plants concentrated on imports only of anthracite coal. Vitaliy Butenko, the commercial director at DTEK Energo, said in a statement: "The stability and uninterrupted supply of coal to our thermal power plants in the face of shortages requires a serious solution". The first delivery of 75,000 metric tons of US thermal coal is scheduled to arrive later this week.
Ukraine began facing shortages of coal after its most important coal producing regions of Donetsk and Lugansk, now controlled by pro-Russian separatist groups, had stopped trade with the rest of the country in February.
The Acting head of the state-owned power grid UkrEnergo Vsevolod Kovalchuk said" Coal stocks are "not comfortable," and that the government had sketched an emergency plan to prevent power cuts during the winter, as well as additional coal supplies from the US and South Africa.Ukraine's coal reserves at thermal power plants as of Monday declined by 29.7% year-on-year, reaching 1.112 million metric tons. 