  Oil prices extended losses on Wednesday on an unexpected increase  in U.S. crude stocks that revived worries about the supply glut  that has capped prices for the past two years.  U.S. crude stockpiles rose by 2.5 million barrels to a total of  523.6 million barrels in the week through Aug. 19 as refinery  inputs decreased and gasoline production fell, according to the  Energy Information Administration. Analysts had expected a  455,000-barrel fall.  U.S. crude oil imports averaged over 8.6 million barrels per day  last week, up by 449,000 barrels per day from the previous week,  according to EIA. Over the last four weeks, crude oil imports  averaged 8.5 million barrels per day, 13.3 percent above the same  four-week period last year  Gasoline stocks were up by 36,000 barrels, compared with  expectations in a Reuters poll for a 1.2 million-barrel drop.  Distillate stockpiles, which include diesel and heating oil, rose  by 122,000 barrels, versus expectations for a 400,000-barrel  increase, the EIA data showed.  Global benchmark Brent crude was down 93 cents, or 1.86 percent, at  $49.03 a barrel, after touching an  intraday low of $49.07. U.S. West Texas  Intermediate (WTI) crude was down $1.33, or 2.77 percent,  at $46.77 a barrel.  Brent briefly spiked above $50 in the previous session after  Reuters reported Iran was sending positive signals that the  country may support joint OPEC action to prop up oil prices.  But analysts and traders remain skeptical that producers will  come to an agreement at a meeting in Algeria scheduled for Sept.  26-28 as various OPEC members have their own agendas.  "There is currently a race to print any freeze headlines but we  have not yet seen strong substance behind them," said Olivier  Jakob, managing director of PetroMatrix in Switzerland.  Iraq's prime minister said on Tuesday his country had not yet  reached its full oil market share, suggesting the government  would not restrain crude output as part of any OPEC agreement.  "I really can't see the sense for Saudi, in particular, to  actually have some meaningful constraint on production because  there is quite a lot of capacity of U.S. shale to come on quite  quickly," said Ric Spooner, chief market analyst at CMC Markets.  He said he could see prices drifting closer to $45 a barrel over  the next few days.China's state-controlled oil firm CNOOC said on Wednesday an oil  price recovery was facing "significant headwinds," as it reported  swinging to a loss in the first half of the year due to weak  prices.  Concerns that Chinese crude demand could falter as Beijing clamps  down on alleged tax evasion in the oil industry also weighed on  prices in overnight trading.  Robust Chinese crude demand growth has been driven by independent  refiners, also know as teapots, who began to import crude last  June after obtaining government crude import quotas and licenses.  But Beijing's crackdown on alleged tax evasion in the oil  industry, targeting the teapots, threatens to put a lid on  Chinese demand.  "The question now is whether the teapots will start cutting  runs," a Singapore-based trader said, adding that falling Chinese  demand would be a double whammy for the oversupplied crude  market.— CNBC's Tom DiChristopher and Patti Domm contributed to this story.