  Oil prices climbed higher on Tuesday ahead of weekly U.S.  inventory data on evidence the global market is tightening as  lower production by OPEC and other exporters drains stocks.  Increased drilling in the United States, however, could keep a  lid on prices. U.S. light  crude settled up 43 cents, or 0.8 percent, to  $53.18. Benchmark Brent crude was up 17 cents at $55.40 a barrel  by 2:33 p.m. ET (1933 GMT).  Ministers from the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting  Countries and big producers outside the group said on  Sunday that of the almost 1.8 million barrels per day (bpd) they  had agreed to remove from the market starting on Jan. 1, 1.5  million bpd had already been cut.  "The petroleum markets are bobbing back to the upside on light  volume, with the January production cuts from OPEC and  cooperating non-OPEC producers as the primary support," Tim  Evans, Citi Futures' energy futures specialist, said in a  note.Iraq's oil minister said on Monday that most major oil companies  working in its territory were participating in output reductions  agreed as part of the OPEC deal.  But the reduction in supply by OPEC is being offset by an  increase in U.S. production as prices rise.  U.S. drillers added the most rigs in nearly four years, data from  energy services company Baker Hughes showed on Friday, extending  an eight-month drilling recovery.  "OPEC is gradually coming to the realization that they may have  received more than they bargained for in re-activating U.S.  drilling activity," Jim Ritterbusch, president of Chicago-based  energy advisory firm Ritterbusch & Associates, said in a  note.  U.S. oil production has risen by more than 6 percent since  mid-2016, though it remains 7 percent below the 2015 peak. It is  back to levels reached in late 2014, when strong U.S. crude  output contributed to a crash in oil prices.  Analysts estimated U.S. crude stocks increased by about 2.7  million barrels in the week to Jan. 20.  The American Petroleum Institute (API) is scheduled to release  data at 4:30 p.m. EST, while the Energy Information  Administration (EIA) report is due at 10:30 a.m. EST on  Wednesday.The push by Republicans in the U.S. House of Representatives for  a shift to border-adjusted corporate tax (BTA) could push WTI  prices higher than Brent, triggering large-scale domestic  production, according to analysts at Goldman Sachs.  "We expect WTI could move to a $10 per barrel premium to Brent  from a $3 discount - a $13 (+25 percent) relative move  immediately."  Brent's premium to WTI narrowed on Tuesday.  The appreciation in WTI could be an incentive for producers to  sharply increase output, the bank said, warning that the ramp up  in U.S. production in a market only starting to rebalance would  create a renewed large oil surplus in 2018, which could lead to  an immediate sharp decline in global oil prices.  Bernstein Energy said global oil inventories declined 24 million  barrels to 5.7 billion barrels in the fourth quarter of last year  from the previous quarter. This amounts to about 60 days of world  oil consumption.  "This is the biggest quarterly decline since the fourth quarter  of 2013, confirming that inventory builds are now reversing as  the market shifts from oversupply to undersupply," Bernstein  analysts said in a note to clients.