 This is a breaking news story. Please check  back.   U.S. crude futures ended lower on Thursday after a volatile  trading session in the face of a strong dollar and the U.S. commitment to forge a  nuclear deal with Iran.  Concerns about deteriorating oil supplies from Libya and Iraq  boosted crude prices even before the New York session.  Without new bullish factors apparent in U.S. trading hours, the  market stayed afloat on buying from those convinced it had hit  bottom since the June-January selloff that had knocked 60 percent  off crude prices, analysts said. Read MoreExpect low prices, more volatility in  oil: Exxon CEO U.S. crude for April delivery closed 77 cents, or 1.5 percent, at $50.76 a barrel after hitting a session peak of $52.40.  The front-month contract in  was flat at $60.60 a barrel, after rallying more than $1 earlier.  "The fundamentals dictate that prices should be lower, but market  bulls and bottom pickers continue to discount bearish news and  embrace anything that's even remotely bullish," said Dominick  Chirichella, senior partner at the Energy Management Institute in  New York.  A deteriorating security situation led Libya's state oil company  to declare force majeure on 11 of its oilfields on Wednesday.  Output from Libya is at about a quarter of highs seen before the  country's 2011 civil war. Read More Iraq, Iran and Libya are  wildcards for oil: Expert  In Iraq, Islamic State militants set fire to oil wells in the  Ajil field east of Tikrit to try to hinder aerial attacks aimed  at driving them from the oilfield.  Those bullish factors ran contrary to the spike in the dollar and  the U.S. decision to press ahead with its nuclear negotiations  with Tehran.  U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry said a nuclear deal with  Tehran would address security concerns of Gulf Arab countries,  although Washington was not seeking a "grand bargain" with Iran,  a reference to wider political and security cooperation. Read MoreOil firms are swimming in data they  don't use  On Monday, oil tumbled, with Brent falling 5 percent, on fear  that a quick nuclear deal for Tehran could lift U.S. and other  Western government sanctions against the OPEC nation and flood  the market with new oil exports.  Weaker-than-expected U.S. jobless claims and factory orders and a  drop in nonfarm productivity were other negatives for oil.