U.S. oil settled at a 5-year low on Friday as strong U.S.  employment data did little to lift the oil market's bearish mood  a day after Saudi Arabia cut official selling prices.  U.S.  crude futures settled 97 cents  lower at $65.84 per  barrel, its lowest level since July 29,  2009.  The January  contract dipped in and out of positive  territory in afternoon trad as the market  grappled with oversupply due to the U.S. shale boom and the  recent decision by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries not  to cut production.  It was  down 67 cents at $70 a barrel.  Read MoreThis is oil's 'Minsky moment':  Strategist   "We just had the best economic news come out for some time and  the market went nowhere," said Carl Larry, director of business  development consultant for oil and gas at Frost & Sullivan.  "Traders, hedge funds, oil companies - they're saying that we  might as well take some money off the table. Volumes are thin and  choppy. Everyone is waiting for the weekend."  Analysts said the Saudi cuts to monthly prices for crude it sells  to the United States and Asia just a week after blocking cuts to  OPEC's output show it is stepping up its battle for market share.  "It's been weighing on the market, showing that OPEC is not ready  to end its price war," said Commerzbank analyst Eugen Weinberg.  "The lower the better seems to be the new paradigm for OPEC."The dollar index hit a new intraday high of 89.467, the highest  level since March 2009. A stronger dollar makes commodities  denominated in the greenback less affordable to holders of other  currencies.  U.S. employment data contrasts with the eurozone, where  Germany's Bundesbank this week halved its 2015 growth forecasts  for Europe's largest economy to 1 percent. Read MoreOil prices will go up again—are we  ready?  Oversupply could rise next year when Iraq starts to export more  oil because of an agreement between Baghdad and the Kurdish  regional government.  The supply of North Sea crude that underpins the Brent benchmark  will average 871,000 barrels per day in January, according  to loading programs provided by trade sources.