U.S. oil rallied on Monday, rebounding from a five-year low, as  data suggested that tumbling prices may have started to affect  drilling activity in the fast-growing U.S. shale oil  industry. U.S. crude settled up $2.85, or 4.3 percent, at $69.00 a barrel, posting its largest daily gain  since August 2012. The contract slipped  to an intraday low of $63.72, the lowest since July  2009, earlier. Benchmark  was last up about $2 near $72 per barrel. It  had fallen by almost $3 earlier to shy of $64, a low since July  2009.    A weaker dollar, which makes commodities denominated in the  greenback more affordable to holders of other currencies, also  enticed buying in oil and other natural resource markets, traders  said. Read MoreHow low can it go? Gas prices about to  fall a lot more  "There's a sense that the market got a little bit ahead of  itself, and we're seeing some producer buying come in and it's  driving the market back up," said Phil Flynn, analyst at the  Price Futures Group in Chicago.  "I wouldn't be surprised to see it rally a couple more dollars.  But I also wouldn't be surprised to see it sell back later in the  session because of the volatile nature of things now and the  perception among some that nothing has really changed  fundamentally."Read MoreGame over for Venezuela's economy?  Oil is still down about 10 percent since producer group OPEC's  decision last Thursday not to cut output despite fears of a  supply glut. Both Brent and U.S. crude have fallen for five  months in a row, marking the longest losing streak in oil since  the 2008/2009 financial crisis.  Saudi Arabia, the most influential member of the Organization of  the Petroleum Exporting Countries, blocked moves by some smaller  producers to curb output. The Saudis argued low prices would  ultimately hurt U.S. shale oil production, which analysts say is  responsible much of the oversupply now.  Data reviewed by Reuters on Monday suggested the new low-price  environment for oil might have started affecting U.S. shale  production, with a 15 percent drop in permits issued for new  shale wells in October.  "The market is still looking for a new equilibrium below $70 (a  barrel), which is a little surprising given that with the current  prices, much of the shale oil production in the U.S., or part of  it, will be unprofitable," Commerzbank analyst Eugen Weinberg  said. Read MoreRouble heading for biggest one-day drop  since 1998   With oil prices losing about 40 percent since June, the impact is  felt around the world as oil-producers from Iraq to Nigeria  are revising 2015 budgets to reflect lower prices.  Iran refrained from protesting against OPEC's decision to retain  its production ceiling to maintain group solidarity, even  though the move will not benefit all members, Iran's oil  minister said in local media reports.CNBC contributed to this report.