  Oil rose by as much as 6.5 percent on Monday to an 18-month high  after OPEC and some of its rivals reached their first deal since  2001 to jointly reduce output to try to tackle global oversupply.  On Saturday, producers from outside the Organization of the  Petroleum Exporting Countries, led by Russia, agreed to  reduce output by 558,000 bpd, short of the target of 600,000 bpd  but still the largest contribution by non-OPEC ever.  That followed the Nov. 30 deal by OPEC to cut output by 1.2  million bpd for six months from Jan. 1, with top exporter Saudi  Arabia cutting around 486,000 bpd to curb the supply glut that  has dogged markets for two years.  Crude futures have rallied sharply, with U.S. futures gaining 23  percent since the middle of November as optimism that an  agreement would be reached started to grow. Brent crude futures were up $1.33, or 2.5 percent,  at $55.66 per barrel by 2:36 p.m. ET (1936 GMT), having hit a  session peak of $57.89, the highest since July 2015. U.S. crude futures were up $1.33, or 2.6 percent, at  $52.83 a barrel. They earlier touched $54.51, also a high going  back to July 2015.  "Right now the market is kind of feeding on itself," said Gene  McGillian, manager of market research at Tradition Energy in  Stamford, Connecticut.  "The market could push another $1 to $2 up to $55, and Brent  could go to about $60, but at that point there are some concerns  that are going to start to cap the rally."  PVM Oil Associates strategist David Hufton noted that "as things  stand today, no cuts have been made and production is in fact  still rising." He said it was difficult to "justify the front-end  price surge other than that is where the liquidity is and where  speculative players, moving in herds, always prefer to place  their bets."  For the deal to be effective, all parties must stick to their  word.   Further, several of the non-OPEC countries are still increasing  their production. Russia, for instance, does not expect to reach  its target until April or May, and several other countries are  expected to experience only natural declines, which will not  necessarily affect the supply situation.  "We believe that the observation of the OPEC-11 and non-OPEC 11  production cuts is required to sustainably support... oil prices  to our 1H17 WTI price forecast of $55 a barrel," Goldman Sachs  said.  "This forecast reflects an effective 1.0 million barrels per day  (bpd) cut vs. the 1.6 million bpd announced cut and greater  compliance to the announced cuts is therefore an upside risk to  our forecasts."  Goldman Sachs forecast full compliance would be worth an extra $6  per barrel to its price forecast.  Higher prices also raise the chances of other producers boosting  output, particularly U.S. shale operators.   Rig counts have grown steadily in recent months in the United  States. U.S. production remains about one million bpd below its  peak of 9.6 million reached in 2015, according to U.S. Energy  Department data."There are too many moving parts for OPEC's new policy to be  sustainable in the long term. The strategy is bound to overshoot,  in our view. leading to lower prices in the second half of next  year," Barclays said in a note on Monday.