  Oil prices fell 1 percent on Tuesday, with U.S. crude breaking  below $50 per barrel for a second straight day ahead of weekly  data that could show a build in domestic inventories.  Analysts said verbal jockeying among the Organization of the  Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) created uncertainty about  potential output cuts at its meeting next month, noting that a  particular worry was Iraq's exclusion from the plan. International Brent crude oil futures fell 89 cents, or 1.7 percent, to $50.57 per barrel by 2:40 p.m. ET (1840 GMT). U.S. West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude futures  settled down 56 cents, or 1.1 percent, to $49.96 a barrel.  Trade group American Petroleum Institute will issue at 4:30 4:30  p.m. EDT (2030 GMT) a weekly report of crude stockpiles and other  oil supply-demand data, ahead of an official report by the U.S.  government's Energy Information Administration on Wednesday.  Analysts polled by Reuters expected the data would show crude  stocks rose 800,000 barrels last week, after a drop of more than  5 million barrels in the week to Oct. 14. Commodity-watchers  said a leak in a pipeline leading out of the huge Cushing,  Oklahoma, storage hub should lead to more build up of stocks in  the coming weeks.  "The sentiment is it's a bit more negative," said Scott Shelton,  energy futures broker with ICAP in Durham, North Carolina. "There  are some expectations that we can see a crude build."  Official inventory data has surprised by showing drawdowns in six  of the seven past weeks, including the largest fall in stocks  since 1999 when analysts foresaw a build. U.S. crude stocks are  closely watched to gauge supply and demand in the world's biggest  crude consumer.  The dollar rose to its highest level in nearly nine months  against a basket of currencies, making greenback-denominated  commodities, including crude, less affordable to holders of the  euro and other currencies. The S&P 50 index for U.S. equity  prices, a proxy for business confidence, fell 0.4 percent, the  most in a week.  "The dollar moving higher historically is obviously a negative  factor," said Kyle Cooper, analyst at ION Energy in Houston.  Before this week, oil prices had risen nearly 13 percent in three  previous weeks since OPEC announced its first planned output cut  in eight years to shore up crude prices that have more than  halved from 2014 highs above $100 a barrel.  OPEC hopes to remove about 700,000 bpd from an estimated global  supply of 1 to 1.5 million bpd. Details of how much each member  should cut have been left to the cartel's meeting in Vienna on  Nov. 30.  Iraq emerging as a possible dissenter and non-member Russia as a  potentially compliant collaborator ahead of the gathering of  OPEC's 14 member states,   Iraq, the second-largest producer in OPEC, said on Sunday it wanted to be  exempt from output curbs as it needed more money to fight Islamic  State militants.  Until there is more clarity on the planned cuts, which OPEC hopes  will be coordinated with non-members such as Russia, analysts  said oil prices would likely remain range-bound but volatile  around current levels.  "Expect more of this choppy interplay until more concrete news  emerges, as speculative buying runs into record producer selling  of the futures contracts for hedging," Jeffrey Halley, senior  market analyst at brokerage OANDA in Singapore, said.