  Oil prices jumped nearly 6 percent on Tuesday, bouncing back  from multi-month lows on expectations that OPEC will agree later  this month to cut production to reduce a supply glut.  Saudi Energy Minister Khalid al-Falih is expected to travel to  the Qatari capital, Doha, this week for meetings with  oil-producing countries on the sidelines of an energy forum,  sources familiar with the matter told Reuters.  The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries is due to  meet on Nov. 30 to agree to limit output. An outline deal was  reached in September but negotiations on the detail are proving  difficult, officials say.  Traders and analysts also pointed to a report from Monday about a  last ditch effort by OPEC to bring the world's top producers  together to rein in production, saying it triggered a wave of  short covering. North Sea Brent crude oil was up $2.50 a barrel, or  5.6 percent, at $46.93 by 2:38 p.m. ET after hitting a  three-month low of $43.57 on Monday.  U.S. light crude settled up $2.49 a barrel, or 5.8 percent, at $45.81. It reached a three-month low of $42.20 on  Monday.  "Clearly the market is now seeing increased chances of an OPEC  production cut," Commerzbank analysts said in a note.  "There is doubtless considerable pressure to take action, as the  oversupply will not reduce itself"  OPEC is a diverse grouping, politically and economically, and  several members wish to increase production.  Saudi Arabia's energy minister has said it is imperative OPEC  reach a consensus on a deal to curb production, Algeria's state  news agency APS said on Sunday.  "Reports of a diplomatic push by OPEC to strike a deal are  supporting the markets," said Tamas Varga, oil analyst at London  brokerage PVM Oil Associates. "The rally could last a little  while but the underlying fundamental picture is still bearish." Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro said on Tuesday he will  meet with OPEC secretary-general Mohammed Barkindo in Caracas to  discuss a potential agreement to limit global oil  production.  IG Group market strategist Jingyi Pan said market sentiment has  been buoyed by reports that key producers including Iran and Iraq  were thinking about restraining production.  News of an attack on a major oil pipeline in Nigeria, the Nembe  Creek Trunk Line in the southern Niger Delta, gave an additional  push to prices.  A weaker dollar also boosted greenback-denominated crude oil.  However, the underlying fundamentals were still bearish, traders  said, pointing to rising U.S. shale production.  U.S. producers had rushed to lock in future output as prices  breached the key psychological level of $50 barrel, keeping the  threat of continued drilling high, even in a low-price  environment.  Technical analysts said oil markets were due an upward correction  after a month of declines.  "The current active contract (for U.S. crude) is expiring. The  last trading day is next Monday, so some oil traders are already  starting to close out their positions to roll over," Philips  Futures investment analyst Jonathan Chan in Singapore said.  But rising Libyan oil production could cap gains.  A tanker carrying the first freshly produced cargo of Libyan  crude to be exported since the Ras Lanuf terminal reopened in  September left the port on Monday.  Libya's oil production has almost doubled to around 600,000 bpd  in recent weeks.  