Oil jumped 1.7 percent Tuesday, continuing its year-end  rally with support from expectations of tighter supply once the  first output cut deal between OPEC and non-OPEC producers in 15  years takes effect on Sunday.  U.S. crude prices have surged 25 percent since mid-November,  helped by expectations for OPEC's supply cut and generally solid  U.S. economic figures that have also bolstered equity prices.  Trading was thin on Tuesday, with less than one-third of the  usual volume in futures contracts in West Texas Intermediate  crude oil. With oil near $54 a barrel, U.S. crude futures are not  far from the year's high of $54.51 high reached on December 12.  "Some of the doubts (in OPEC) people are showing are going to  have to be put to rest," said Phil Flynn, analyst at Price  Futures Group in Chicago. "There's a strong possibility that  we're going to rally into the end of the year."  Jan. 1 brings the official start of the deal agreed by the  Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and several  non-OPEC producers to lower production by almost 1.8 million  barrels per day (bpd). Brent  crude was up 87 cents, or 1.6 percent, at $56.03 a  barrel by 2:35 p.m. ET (1935). The global benchmark reached  $57.89 on Dec. 12, the highest since July 2015. U.S. West Texas  Intermediate crude settled up 88 cents, or 1.7 percent, to  $53.90.Crude may struggle to  rally much further before evidence is available of OPEC's  compliance with the cuts, analysts said.  "To go above $60 is going to be difficult. We're already close to  the top rather than the bottom of the range right now," said  Olivier Jakob, oil analyst at Petromatrix.  "From January, we'll start to have a better idea about the level  of OPEC production. That is going to be more and more of a  focus."  The first meeting of a committee of OPEC and non-OPEC nations  responsible for monitoring compliance with a global agreement to  reduce oil output has been proposed for Abu Dhabi on Jan. 13, two  sources told Reuters on Tuesday.  The commission includes 5 members: Kuwait, Algeria, Venezuela,  Russia and Oman.  Russian oil producer Gazprom Neft said on Tuesday it planned to  increase oil production by 4.5-5 percent next year, less than it  had intended before Russia joined the supply cut deal.  Major OPEC members such as Saudi Arabia and Iraq have informed  customers of lower supplies. But Libya and Nigeria — which  are exempt from reductions because conflict has curbed their  output — have been increasing production.  Libyan output was 622,000 bpd on Monday, up slightly from levels  recorded before an armed faction agreed to lift a two-year  blockade on major western pipelines on Dec. 14, the National Oil  Corporation (NOC) said.  While the outright price of crude is being supported by the  prospect of lower supplies, the impact in the physical market  will probably differ according to the type of crude.  Price differentials for lighter crudes could weaken once the  supply cut comes into force as producers are expected to trim  back output of their heavier grades, analysts at JBC Energy said  in a report.  "Going into 2017, we expect that the premiums for light, sweet  grades may be increasingly pressured as a result of the joint  OPEC and non-OPEC output cut agreement which is supposed to  reduce primarily the availability of medium-sour crudes," JBC  said.