  Oil prices tumbled nearly 4 percent on Monday on concern that record  Iraqi crude exports and rising U.S. output would undermine OPEC's  efforts to curb global oversupply. U.S. crude  futures settled at $51.96 per barrel, down $2.03, or 3.8  percent. That was the weakest daily closing level since Dec. 16. Brent crude futures were down $2.22, or 3.9 percent, at  $54.88 a barrel at 2:35 p.m. ET (1912 GMT), near the lows of the  day.  In Iraq, OPEC's second-biggest producer, oil exports from the  southern Basra ports reached a record high of 3.51 million  barrels per day (bpd) in December, the oil ministry said.  Iraq's oil ministry underscored that the high levels from the  south would not affect the country's decision to lower production  in January to comply with the OPEC agreement. But some remained  concerned over the feasibility of the cuts — which would  have to come from the north.  "We have compliance with the Gulf countries, but the rest of the  slate is looking a bit shaky," said Robert Yawger, director of  the futures division at Mizuho Securities USA.  "With the big numbers coming out of the southern port of Basra  for December ... it's implying that Iraq may be the first big  crack in the wall of the OPEC agreement," he added.  Sources also told Reuters that Iraq's State Oil Marketing Company  (SOMO) had given three buyers in Asia and Europe full supply  allocations for February.  The lower optimism comes even though Russia, one of the world's  largest crude producers, is apparently sticking with the  agreement to cut. Russian energy market sources told Reuters the  country's output had fallen by 100,000 bpd in the first week of  the month.  Kuwait's oil minister said on Monday he expected a "big  commitment" by OPEC and non-OPEC producers to the deal to cut  output, which was reached last year. He added that a committee  will meet in Vienna on Jan. 21-22 to monitor compliance and agree  on a "final monitoring mechanism."  Last week, U.S. energy companies added oil rigs for a 10th week  in a row, for a total of 529, Baker Hughes data showed. Barclays  analysts said they expected the U.S. rig count to rise to 850-875  by year end.  Dealers add that the recent uptick in hedging activity to protect  future output for 2018 and beyond could put more pressure into  the market.  "We see the optimism surrounding OPEC and non-OPEC production  cuts being counterbalanced by fears of higher U.S. crude  production as the higher rig count of last Friday still weighs,"  said Hans van Cleef, senior energy economist at ABN Amro.  Speculators raised bullish bets on Brent prices last week to  458,048, weekly data from the InterContinental Exchange showed,  not far off a record high reached last month.  "Considering the record speculative long (positions), this market  needs to be fed price supportive news on a constant basis. Once  that fades, profit-taking sets in," said Ole Hansen, head of  commodity research at SaxoBank.