  U.S. crude futures closed up 2.81 percent at $57.74, its highest settle of the year, on Thursday after Saudi Arabia and its allies maintained a  bombing blitz in Yemen that heightened concerns about the  security of Middle East oil supplies.  Oil buyers also stoked the rally with bets that U.S. crude output  will shrink further after two straight weeks of declines, traders  and analysts said.  Warplanes from a Saudi-led coalition pounded Houthi militiamen  and military bases in Yemen, residents said, two days after  Riyadh announced it was ending the blitz. Read More Charts and fundamentals  disagree on oil stocks  The Bab el-Mandeb Strait on Yemen's southern coast controls  access to the Red Sea, Suez Canal and the ports of western Saudi  Arabia, the world's biggest crude exporter. Brent crude for June was up   $2.02, more than 3 percent, at $64.75 a barrel. The contract earlier rose to an intraday high for 2015 of $65.58. U.S. crude for June also touched a new 2015 intraday peak of $58.41 before closing at its highest levels since Dec. 12.  "The Saudi escalation of its Yemen campaign is producing exactly  the kind of geopolitical tensions oil is known to rally for,"  said Gene McGillian, senior analyst at Tradition Energy, an oil  markets advisory in Stamford, Connecticut.  "You also have the assumption that U.S. production will continue  to decline from cutbacks in oil rigs count and exploration  expenditure, though I'm not too much of a believer in such  improving fundamentals," he said. Read MoreA big oil bull? Why this analyst is  saying 'buy'  U.S. oil production notched its third weekly decline in four  weeks, the U.S. Energy Information Administration said.  Oil prices have risen as much as $10 this month due to worries  about Middle East supplies and signs of stronger global demand,  particularly for automotive fuels.  But so far, world supplies of crude are still in a glut. Latest  estimates put production by the Organization of the Petroleum  Exporting Countries at almost 2 million barrels per day above  demand for its oil in the first half.  U.S. government data on Wednesday showed domestic crude  stockpiles rose by 5.3 million barrels last week, well above a  forecast 2.9 million barrels, to a record 489 million barrels. Read MoreLong-awaited audit may shed light on  Petrobras scandal  It was the 15th straight weekly build for U.S. crude stocks and  pushed U.S. commercial inventories almost 100 million barrels  above their year-ago level.  Executives at an industry conference in Houston this week said  the cost of drilling wells in the United States had fallen much  faster than expected, allowing producers to work oilfields that  just months ago looked uncompetitive.