  Oil prices pared losses after falling to their lowest levels in three months on Monday, as the prospect  of another year of oversupply and weak prices overshadowed  chances that OPEC will reach a deal to cut output.Donald Trump's surprise victory in last week's U.S.  presidential election has boosted stocks and the dollar, but  undermined much of the commodities complex, including oil, which  has sagged as expectations that the world's largest exporters  will agree to reduce output this month have waned. Brent crude futures were down 27 cents at  $44.48 a barrel by 2:40 p.m. ET. The contract dipped to a session low of $43.57, marking its first drop below $44 since Aug. 11.NYMEX U.S. crude  futures settled down 9 cents at $43.32 a barrel, after earlier falling to $42.20, the lowest level since Aug. 11.  "In the same way that a strong OPEC agreement was needed to  continue the rally above $55, a lack of agreement will be needed  to break below $40 and right now, we're at $45," Petromatrix  strategist Olivier Jakob said.  "So I think on a risk basis, we're starting to be a bit more  concerned about the upside price risk, than about the downside."  OPEC plans to cut or freeze output, but analysts doubt the  group's ability to reach an agreement at its meeting on Nov. 30.  The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries  said on Friday its output hit a record 33.64 million barrels per  day (bpd) in October, and forecast an even larger global surplus  in 2017 than the International Energy Agency on Thursday.  Yet Saudi Energy Minister Khalid al-Falih has said it was  imperative for OPEC members to reach a consensus on activating a  deal made in September in Algiers to cut production.  Data from the InterContinental Exchange on Monday showed  investors delivered the largest weekly cut on record to their  bets on a sustained rise in the price of oil.  "OPEC know what needs to be done but too few members will agree  to take the production pain for the price gain, knowing also that  the price gain incentivizes non-OPEC to produce more, lengthening  the rebalancing process," PVM Oil Associates analyst David Hufton  said.   "OPEC are facing insurmountable problems to which the election of  Donald Trump has added."  The dollar index hit an 11-month peak on Monday, driven  by an aggressive sell-off in bonds that has pushed Treasury  yields to their highest since January.  Ordinarily, a strong dollar would push oil lower, but the  correlation between the two is at its most positive in two  months, suggesting they are more likely to move in lockstep with  one another than in opposite directions.