  Oil prices edged higher on Thursday, but swelling U.S. crude  stockpiles limited the rebound from a one-week low after the  International Energy Agency said oil markets had been tightening  even before cuts agreed by OPEC and other producers took effect.  The IEA said that while it was "far too soon" to gauge OPEC  members' compliance with promised cuts, commercial oil  inventories in the developed world fell for a fourth consecutive  month in November, with another decline projected for December. U.S. West Texas  Intermediate crude oil settled up 29 cents at $51.37 per  barrel, having dropped to a one-week low on Wednesday at $50.91 a  barrel.  International benchmark Brent crude was up  34 cents at $54.26 a barrel by 2:33 p.m. ET (1933 GMT), after  closing down 2.8 percent in the previous session.  A strong U.S. dollar limited oil's advance.  Prices tumbled to session lows after U.S. Energy Information  Administration (EIA) data showed crude inventories rose  unexpectedly last week as refineries sharply cut production.  U.S. commercial crude inventories rose by 2.3 million barrels in  the week through Jan. 13 to 485.5 million barrels, well above the expectations of a 342,000-barrel decline.  The data also showed much larger-than-expected increases in  stocks of gasoline and a surprise drop distillates inventories.  Stockpiles of gasoline in the U.S. East Coast swelled to the  highest weekly levels on record for this time of year, when  refiners typically begin storing barrels ahead of summer driving  season.  "At the end of the day, the focus is on the bigger picture and  the bigger picture still looks positive which is why we are still  up," said Scott Shelton, energy specialist at ICAP in Durham,  North Carolina.  "The bigger picture includes the OPEC/non-OPEC supply cuts and  the IEA report, which was pretty supportive."  Oil prices have gyrated this year as the market's focus has swung  from hopes that oversupply may be curbed by output cuts announced  by the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and  other producers to fears that a rebound in U.S. shale production  could swamp any such reductions.  The head of the IEA, Fatih Birol, said in Davos, Switzerland,  that he expected U.S. shale oil output to rebound by as much as  500,000 barrels per day over the course of 2017, which would be a  new record.  It raised its 2016 demand growth estimate, and said the  data indicated that rising demand was slowly tightening global  oil markets.  Still, analysts warned that keeping the cuts was crucial,  particularly as a resilient U.S. shale industry threatened to add  more barrels to the market.  "Discipline and strict adherence to the new quotas will be needed  probably throughout 2017 and beyond to see the long-awaited and  sustainable rebalancing finally arrive," PVM Oil Associates  analyst Tamas Varga said in a note.  OPEC, which is cutting oil output alongside independent producer  Russia for the first time in years, wants a lasting partnership  with Moscow, Saudi Energy Minister Khalid al Falih told Reuters.  He also said extending the deal for a full year if the market  rebalances was not needed.  OPEC itself said its cuts would help balance the market, and said  its output had already fallen in December. But it also pointed to  the possibility of a rebound in U.S. output amid higher oil  prices.