  Oil prices edged higher on Tuesday propped up by a decline in the  U.S. dollar and comments by Saudi Arabia that it would adhere to  OPEC's commitment to cut output.  The dollar fell to a near six-week low against a basket of  currencies after U.S. President-elect Donald Trump said that the  strong greenback was hurting U.S. competitiveness.  A weaker greenback makes dollar-denominated crude less expensive  for users of other currencies.  "The oil market is actually weaker than it looks because it is  being propped up by the weak dollar," said Phil Davis, managing  partner at PSW Investments in Woodland Park, New Jersey. U.S. West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude oil  futures settled up 11 cents at $52.48 per barrel, off a  session peak of $53.52. Brent crude futures, the international benchmark for  oil prices, were down 38 cents at $55.48 per barrel at 2:35 p.m.  ET (1935 GMT). They earlier rose to $56.95.  U.S. crude's discount to Brent widened to its biggest in nearly  five months after U.S. President-elect Donald Trump criticized a  part of Republicans' corporate-tax plan, traders said.  Traders said that oil drew some support earlier Tuesday from top  crude exporter Saudi Arabia, which said it would adhere strictly  to its commitment to cut output under the agreement between OPEC  and other producers, such as Russia.  Under the agreement, OPEC, Russia and other non-OPEC producers  have pledged to cut oil output by nearly 1.8 million bpd,  initially for six months, to bring supplies back in line with  consumption.  Earlier gains were capped by forecasts for rising U.S. and  Russian production and skepticism that the Organization  of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) as a whole  would comply with its commitment to reduce supplies.  Russian oil production is expected to reach another post-Soviet  record high in 2017 after a global deal to cut output expires at  the end of June, according to a Reuters poll of analysts.  "Strong and rising production out of Libya, Iran, Iraq and  Nigeria will be acting to negate impact of OPEC/Russia output  curtailments," Jim Ritterbusch, president of Chicago-based energy  advisory firm Ritterbusch & Associates, said in a note.  Ritterbusch also noted that U.S. production was also on the  upswing with last week's reported upside acceleration likely to  be sustained to about 9.2 million barrels per day by the end of  the quarter.  Oil exports from Iraq's southern terminals have fallen so far in  January, according to loading data and an industry source, a sign  that OPEC's second-largest producer is following through on the  group's decision to cut output.  "The market genuinely seems quite happy here (around $55) ... but  people are watching with caution as the slightest hint of this  OPEC/non-OPEC agreement going wrong is going to drive the market  down," said Matt Stanley, a fuel broker at Freight Investor  Services (FIS) in Dubai.   Despite this, crude futures have fallen 5 percent since their  early January peaks because of doubts over the oil producers'  willingness to fully comply with the cuts.   Stockpiles at the U.S. delivery hub for crude futures in Cushing,  Oklahoma, which the government said declined about 580,000  barrels in the week to Jan. 6, fell about 756,000 barrels in the  week to Jan. 13, according to traders, citing energy monitoring  service Genscape.  Traders are also watching rising U.S. output with interest, as  this could offset supply cuts elsewhere.    "The market is focused on the build in U.S. production which is  nearly up to 9 million bpd — up from 8.5 million bpd last June  and close to 2014 production levels," said Michael McCarthy,  chief market strategist at Sydney's CMC Markets.   "With U.S. crude clearly above $50 a barrel, we are getting a  supply-side response which is pushing production higher," he  said. 