  Oil rose on Friday, edging closer to new 17-month highs as  producers showed signs of adhering to a global deal to reduce  output.  Oil producers including Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, and Abu  Dhabi, who are members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting  Countries (OPEC), have notified customers that they would cut  supplies from January as part of an effort by OPEC and other  producers led by Russia to balance an oversupplied market. Brent crude oil futures were trading at $55.19 per  barrel up $1.17, or 2.2 percent, at 2:39 p.m. ET (1939 GMT). U.S. West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude settled up  $1, or 2 percent, at $51.90 per barrel.  "The petroleum markets are extending their recovery from  Thursday's low as some confidence in planned production cuts  returns to the market," Tim Evans, Citi Futures' energy futures  specialist, said in a note.  OPEC members have agreed to reduce output by a combined 1.2  million barrels per day (bpd) from Jan. 1, their first such deal  since 2008. Russia and other non-OPEC producers plan to cut about  half as much.  Those deals, clinched over the past two weeks, have boosted  expectations in the market that a two-year supply overhang will  clear soon and prices remain near highs last seen in July  2015.  Russia said on Friday that all of the country's oil companies,  including top producer Rosneft, had agreed to reduce output.  The prospect of lower production led U.S. bank Goldman Sachs to  raise its WTI price forecast to $57.50 per barrel from $55 per  barrel previously for the second quarter of 2017.   For Brent, Goldman expects prices between $55 and $60 per barrel  after the first half of 2017. Despite the possible price floor, Goldman said there was  also limited room for market upside prior to 2017's cuts, and  that its December WTI price forecast was $50 per  barrel.  "There will be little evidence of production cuts until mid to  late January which we believe will be the next catalyst for the  next large move in prices," Goldman said.  There were, however, some ongoing doubts about the willingness of  other OPEC members to comply. Iraq, the group's second biggest producer after Saudi  Arabia, has signed new deals that will increase its sales to  Asian customers like China and India despite its commitment to  reduce output by 210,000 bpd. Libya, which is allowed to ramp up production as part of  the OPEC deal, is close to increasing output crimped by unrest  after a group of oil guards said they had reopened a  long-blockaded pipeline linking some of the country's biggest  oilfields.  Libya's National Oil Corp has said it hopes to raise production  to 900,000 bpd in the near future, and to 1.1 million bpd next  year.Baker  Hughes reported its weekly count of U.S. oil rigs in  operation rose by 12 to 510 in the last week. That was the  highest level since the end of January, when drillers also had  510 oil rigs in operation. — CNBC's Tom DiChristopher contributed to this  article.