  U.S. crude futures ended lower after a choppy trading day on Thursday, as rising oil stockpiles in American storage facilities offset evidence that OPEC  and other big exporters were cutting production.  Prices retraced early gains as traders grew less concerned about  mounting tensions between the United States and Iran.   "Traders seem to have concluded the dispute between the U.S. and  Iran over a recent missile test represents more of a war of words  than the start of a military confrontation that would put  supplies from the wider Persian Gulf at risk," Tim Evans, Citi  Futures' energy futures specialist, said in a note.  U.S. President Donald Trump said on Thursday in a tweet  that Iran had been "put on notice" after the country tested a  ballistic missile. U.S. light  crude settled down 34 cents to $53.54, after climbing by $1.07 on  Wednesday. Brent crude was down 23 cents at $56.57 a barrel by  2:33 p.m ET (1933 GMT) after settling up $1.22 in the previous  session.   Earlier, both Brent and WTI traded at their highest levels since  early January on indications producers from the Organization  of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and other exporters  were following through on their agreements to cut output to  reduce a global supply glut.  The curbs follow an agreement last year by OPEC and other  exporters to reduce supplies by a combined 1.8 million barrels  per day (bpd) to prop up prices that remain at about half their  mid-2014 levels.  A Reuters survey this week found that most key oil producers were  sticking to the deal, with compliance above 80 percent.  Russian oil output contracted in January by 100,000 bpd, Energy  Ministry data showed on Thursday.  "The current sentiment is bullish," said Tamas Varga,  analyst at London brokerage PVM Oil Associates, but added, "We  are still firmly within the ranges. I think buyers will shy away  if the market jumps another dollar."  Higher crude prices in recent months, meanwhile, have prompted  U.S. energy producers to drill for more oil.  U.S. crude oil inventories rose last week by an unexpected 6.5  million barrels to 494.76 million barrels, the Energy Information  Administration said on Wednesday. The build in crude stocks far  exceeded analysts' expectations for an increase of 3.3 million  barrels.  Gasoline stocks climbed by 3.9 million barrels, compared with  analyst expectations of a 1 million barrel gain.  Inventories in the United States, the world's biggest oil  consumer, have been near record highs for much of the past year  and domestic production is rising as U.S. companies drill for  shale oil.