 U.S. crude oil futures settled at their lowest level in  four years on Thursday after data showed crude  stocks built up at a key U.S. delivery point last week. Brent crude also fell to a four-year low and was last below  $79 a barrel on concerns that China will see further economic  slowdown and as Saudi Arabia kept silent about a possible cut in  production.  China's economy lost momentum in October, with factory growth  dipping and investment growth hitting a near 13-year low,  reinforcing expectations of a slower increase in fuel demand.  Developing economies had been a major support for oil over the  past decade, but demand is now failing to keep up with increasing  supply from North American shale production. U.S. light  crude settled $2.97 lower at  $74.21 per barrel, it lowest close since Sept. 2010.  Brent crude for December was last down about $2 at $78 a barrel  after falling to an intraday low of $77.99, its lowest since  2010.   U.S. crude stocks fell more than expected last week as refineries  hiked output, while gasoline stocks increased, data from the  Energy Information Administration showed on Thursday.  But crude stocks at the closely watched Cushing, Oklahoma, hub  for U.S. crude oil futures rose by 1.7 million barrels. Read MoreLow oil prices to bite into 2015 US  shale growth: IEA.   Demand for oil from members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries will  drop to 29.2 million barrels per day next year, almost 1 million  bpd less than current output, the cartel forecast this week.  OPEC members meet in Vienna on Nov. 27, when they will consider  how to respond to a 30 percent fall in oil prices over the past  five months. Some have said they want a cut in output.  Qatar expects to lower oil output to about 500,000 bpd by the end  of November from 650,000 bpd at the end of October and from  800,000 a month before that, an industry source familiar with the  matter said. Read MoreSaudi minister: It's all a  'misunderstanding,' no 'price war' talk  But the most powerful OPEC member, Saudi Arabia, has refrained  from backing a cut, prompting speculation that it is more  concerned with keeping market share than supporting prices.  "We do not set the oil price. The market sets the prices," Saudi  Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi said on Wednesday. Commerzbank oil and commodities  analyst Carsten Fritsch said some traders understood his comment  to mean that Saudi Arabia would let prices fall further. "That is  sort of benign neglect—at least that is what the market  thinks," Fritsch said.