  Oil prices cut early losses after Iraq said it was willing to  "shoulder responsibility" for some of OPEC's planned production  cuts and as U.S. government data showed crude inventories fell  last week.  But gains were capped by investor doubts that OPEC will agree to a  production cut large enough to make a significant dent in the  global glut of crude.  OPEC's deal faced potential setbacks from Iraq's call for it to  be exempt. Baghdad had said it needs oil revenues to fight  Islamic State militants and questioned whether it  should cut from the levels of OPEC's estimates or its own,  higher, production figures.   But Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi told reporters on Wednesday in  Baghdad that Iraq is willing to cut its crude oil output as part  of OPEC's plan to reduce global supply and boost crude prices.  Abadi's comments are the clearest indication so far that Baghdad  will support an OPEC plan to cut production by 4 percent to 4.5  percent when it meets on Nov. 30 in Vienna. International Brent crude oil futures fell 18 cents  to $48.94 a barrel by 2:35 p.m. (1935) after climbing to $49.42 a  barrel earlier in Wednesday's session on optimism OPEC would  agree to an output cut. U.S. West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude oil  futures settled down 7 cents at $47.96 a barrel  after rising to $48.30 earlier on Wednesday.  U.S. crude stocks fell last week as refineries hiked output and  imports fell, data from the Energy Information Administration  showed on Wednesday.  Crude inventories fell by 1.3 million barrels in the last week,  compared with analysts' expectations for an increase of 671,000  barrels.  Offsetting the headline data, gasoline stocks rose by 2.3 million  barrels, compared with analysts' expectations in a Reuters poll  for a 643,000-barrel gain. Distillate stockpiles, which include  diesel and heating oil, were up by 327,000 barrels, versus  expectations for a 357,000-barrel drop.  Also on Wednesday, Baker  Hughes reported the number of oil rigs operating in U.S.  fields rose by 3 to a total of 474 in the latest week. At this  time last year, the rig count stood at 555.  Futures had edged lower on Wednesday on investors' doubts that  OPEC would agree to a large enough output cut to significantly  reduce the global surplus when it meets next week. Exxon Mobil's giant  oil refinery in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, was operating at planned  rates on Wednesday after a fire Tuesday, according to a person  familiar with the plant's operations. The refinery is the  fourth-largest in the United States, with capacity to refine  502,500 barrels per day in crude oil.  Many traders anticipate some agreement at OPEC but fear the aim,  proposed by Algeria, of cutting production by 4 to 4.5 percent,  or over 1.2 million barrels per day according to Reuters  calculations, may not be reached.  The deal's success hinges on an agreement from Iraq and Iran,  which may not give a full backing, three OPEC sources said  Tuesday. Iran wants to increase supply because its output has  been hit by sanctions.  In September, OPEC agreed to bring total output down to the level  of 32.5 million to 33 million barrels a day.  Short-term though, analysts said that investors were currently  unwilling to push crude prices to $50 a barrel or higher. — CNBC's Tom DiChristopher contributed to this  report.