  Oil prices eased on Monday as signs of a strong recovery in U.S.  drilling largely overshadowed news that OPEC and non-OPEC  producers were on track to meet output reduction goals.  Ministers representing members of the Organization of the  Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and non-OPEC  producers said at a meeting on Sunday that they had  taken 1.5 million barrels per day out of the market. The  producers have agreed to reduce supplies by almost 1.8 million  barrels per day in the first half of this year.  "Despite comments over the weekend at the OPEC compliance meeting  that cuts in OPEC/non-OPEC production were ahead of schedule, a  sharp rise in U.S. rig counts and talk of large increases in  capital spending seem to be souring the bullish mood," said Phil  Flynn, analyst at Chicago-based brokerage Price Futures  Group.  U.S. drillers added the most rigs in nearly four years last week,  data from energy services company Baker Hughes showed on Friday,  extending an eight-month drilling recovery. Global benchmark Brent  crude prices were down 24 cents to $55.25 a barrel at  2:33 p.m. ET (1933 GMT).  U.S. West Texas  Intermediate (WTI) crude futures settled down 47 cents to $52.75   a barrel on Friday's close.  Prices pared some losses after Iraq's oil minister said it was  too early to say whether the deal needed to be extended and that  he expected oil prices to rise to $60-$65 per barrel.  From a technical perspective, both contracts remain - for the  time being - above their respective key support levels, said  Fawad Razaqzada, technical analyst for Forex.com.  The trend therefore remains bullish for oil until the charts say  otherwise, he added.  U.S. oil production has risen more than 6 percent since mid-2016,  although it remains 7 percent below a historic high in 2015. It  is back to levels of late 2014, when strong U.S. crude output  contributed to a crash in oil prices.  "There is a widely held view that prices should be higher because  that is what Saudi Arabia is strongly pushing for through  immediate supply cuts, but there is concern as to the speed and  scale of the response of U.S. shale oil supply to higher prices,"  Standard Chartered said in a note.  "While we have argued that U.S. shale cannot increase fast enough  to balance cuts in production elsewhere, we think that market  concerns on the potential U.S. response are still providing  short-term resistance to prices heading closer to $60."  Yet there was bullish news from Libya, where an electrical fault  at the Sarir oil field has resulted in a 60,000 bpd cut in  production, the head of the National Oil Corp said in  London.  Oil market speculators added to bullish bets last week, however,  showing they were more optimistic about higher prices. They  raised long positions on Brent crude futures by 13,931 contracts,  weekly data provided by Intercontinental Exchange showed on  Monday.  However, a record high gross long position among money managers  in NYMEX crude oil futures and options leaves the market ripe for  a correction, traders said.  Equatorial Guinea, a signatory of the production cut deal, said  on Monday it had made an application to join OPEC as its 14th  member.