 Oil prices fell on Thursday after weak U.S. economic data  spurred worries over crude oil demand. U.S.  crude declined $2.23, or 4.6 percent, to  settle at $46.25 a barrel.  was last  down $1 to trade around  $48 a barrel.   Early in the session, U.S. crude moved higher, breaking above $50  a barrel on a fall in the dollar. U.S. crude also briefly traded  at a premium to Brent, rather than the discount it normally  sustains, as the Brent front-month contract traded in its last  day before expiry. The front-month Brent futures contract was due to expire  later on Thursday, and traders said investors who had sold at  higher levels in recent days and weeks were buying back futures  to take profit after recent heavy price falls.  The  saying factory activity in the U.S.  mid-Atlantic region grew at a slower pace this month. The bank's  business activity index fell to its lowest in almost a year. Read MoreOil: Why nobody knows how low it will  go  The slowing activity is another bearish macroeconomic fundamental  for the market, said Richard Hastings of Global Hunter  Securities.  "The expectation is that aggregate demand is not going to be that  robust" a year from now, Hastings said. "And that is enough to  generate the selling activity that's dominating the mood of the  markets."The Labor Department also released a report showing claims for state unemployment benefits rose  last week. Total claims climbed to 316,000, past the 300,000  threshold that is associated with a firming labor market. Hastings called the jump a "significant  uptick." Read MoreBig Oil cuts back as analysts  slash forecasts  "That uptick in jobless claims is something that will really get  the entire market reacting," he said. Bank of America Merrill Lynch cut  its crude oil price forecasts on Thursday, saying Brent could go  as low as $31 by the end of the first quarter of 2015. "Stocks all over the world are building at a very fast  rate," analysts at the bank said in a note to clients, saying  very high inventories would make any sharp recovery in prices  much less likely. Both crude oil benchmarks hit their lowest levels for  almost six years earlier this week on a global oversupply of high  quality oil.The most oil and gas dependent  counties in the US are…  This provided some support for crude, contrasting dominantly  bearish news.  In its monthly report, the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting  Countries forecast demand for the group's oil would drop  to 28.78 million barrels per day in 2015, down 140,000 bpd from  its previous expectation.