  Oil prices slipped on Tuesday as crude output rose in virtually  every major export region despite plans by OPEC and Russia to  cut production, triggering fears that a fuel glut that has dogged  markets for more than two years might last well into 2017. International Brent crude oil futures fell $1.03, or  1.9 percent, to $53.91 per barrel by 2:36 p.m. ET (1936 GMT). U.S. West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude settled down 86 cents, or 1.7 percent, at $50.93 a barrel, for the first down day in five sessions.  Brent rose more than 15 percent over the four sessions since the  Nov. 30 OPEC meeting. The Brent front-month has outperformed the  U.S. contract since the OPEC meeting, with its premium over WTI  reaching $2.29 a barrel earlier on Tuesday, its highest since  August.   Analysts said the boon from last week's Organization of the  Petroleum Exporting Countries decision has faded as they now look  to factors that may undermine the cartel's promise such as record  production, Russia's plans and the reaction of U.S. shale  producers.  "Adherence to assigned OPEC quotas is apt to be limited and  enforcement of such nearly impossible," Jim Ritterbusch,  president of Chicago-based energy advisory firm Ritterbusch &  Associates, said in a note.  "With most of the planned reduction falling on the shoulders of  the Persian Gulf producers, we look for other OPEC members to  virtually ignore assigned quotas," Ritterbusch said.  OPEC's oil output set another record high in November, rising to  34.19 million barrels per day (bpd) from 33.82 million bpd in  October, according to a Reuters survey based on shipping data and  information from industry sources.  Russia reported average oil production in November of 11.21  million bpd, its highest in nearly 30 years. That means OPEC and  Russia alone produced enough to cover almost half of global oil  demand, which is just above 95 million bpd.  Instilling further doubts about OPEC's ability to really cut  output, sources told Reuters that Saudi Arabia and Kuwait may  agree to resume oil production from jointly-held fields in a  neutral zone between the two countries.  "Amid other wild cards, e.g. Libyan and Nigerian production, a  potential Neutral Zone restart adds to the uncertainty around  just what the impact of the recent OPEC decision will be," JBC  analysts said, referring also to the two African OPEC members who  were exempt from the round of cuts and may increase output.  Market watchers had said OPEC's decision to cut output marked an  about-turn for Saudi Arabia, which has been battling to keep its  market share for the past two years by selling more, if cheaper,  barrels rather than bolstering prices.  In a further sign that the fight for market share is not over  — especially in Asia, the world's biggest consumer region  — Saudi Aramco cut the January price for its Arab Light  grade for Asian customers by $1.20 a barrel versus December.  As part of the deal, OPEC said major oil producers not part of  the group had agreed to cut a further 600,000 bpd of production.  These countries and OPEC are due to meet this weekend to finalize  their portion.  But analysts said oil prices were unlikely to tumble back to  levels of around or below $45 a barrel seen before last week's  deal. Matt Stanley, fuel broker at Freight Investor Services  International in Dubai, said the oil market was trying to find  "some kind of level it is happy settling at."  "I have a feeling it is more towards the $50 per barrel range  than $55 per barrel," he said.  Meanwhile, Glencore chief Ivan Glasenberg reflected some fears in  the market when he said prices could drop to $35 should U.S.  shale producers ramp up their output though he hoped they would  be "responsible."  Many shale oil producers have suffered as prices fell below their  production break-even levels and so may hope to boost output  following the recent price rise.  The U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) expects U.S.  crude production to fall less than previously expected to 8.9  million bpd in 2016 and to 8.8 million bpd in 2017 from 9.4  million bpd in 2015, according to its monthly short term energy  outlook.  Analysts, meanwhile, forecast U.S. crude inventories fell by 1  million barrels last week.  The American Petroleum Institute (API) is set to release U.S.  inventory data at 4:30 p.m. EST on Tuesday, while the U.S. EIA  will release its petroleum report at 10:30 a.m. EST on Wednesday.