  rose on Friday  on uncertainty over Saudi oil output following the death of King  Abdullah, while U.S. crude prices fell, with traders citing a  reported build at the Cushing, Oklahoma storage hub and the  partial shutdown of an Indiana refinery.  Salman, the late king's brother and successor to the throne, is  expected to continue OPEC's policy of keeping oil output steady  to protect market share. Still, the transition should be bullish  for Brent, said Bob Yawger of Mizuho Securities USA.  "Any time there's uncertainty in the market, you tend to have  support," he said. Read MoreIt's downhill for US after  Saudi king dies: Experts  Brent was up 24 cents to trade at $49 a barrel. It rose as high  as $49.80 after reports of the Saudi king's  death. Meanwhile, U.S. crude settled 1.6 percent lower, at $45.59 a  barrel, the lowest settlement since March  2009.   A trader said energy data provider Genscape estimated that U.S.  crude stockpiles in Cushing, Oklahoma, rose 1.7 million barrels  in the week ending Tuesday.  The spread between WTI and Brent should keep widening, said  Walter Zimmerman, chief technical analyst at United-ICAP.  "There's substantial downside to that," Zimmerman said.  Reports of a partial shutdown at BP's oil refinery in Whiting,  Indiana, weighed further on U.S. crude. Sources familiar with the  plant's operations said they did not know when the  90,000-barrel-per-day crude distillation unit would be  restarted.  Mizuho's Yawger said the refinery disruption would exacerbate the  U.S.'s oversupply woes. "That story even trumps the death of the  king of the biggest oil producing country basically in the  world," he said. Read MoreSaudi oil policy 'just took turn for  the worse': Commentary  WTI pared some losses as the National Association of Realtors  said U.S. home sales rose in December, which may indicate a  recovering housing market..  On Thursday, U.S. government data showed domestic oil inventories  are at an 80-year high for this time of the year.  Booming U.S. production has turned the United States from the  world's biggest oil importer into one of the top producers,  pumping more than 9 million barrels per day.  Some oil exporters, such as Venezuela, want the 12-member  Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries to cut  output to support prices and revenues. Read MoreGlobal leaders pay respects to  Saudi King  Yet, led by Saudi Arabia, OPEC announced last November it would  keep output steady at 30 million barrels per day.