  Benchmark Brent crude was on track for its second  weakest month since the global financial crisis of 2008,  and traders said the sell-off that has halved  crude prices in six months showed no sign of  coming to an end. Read MoreUS agency gives quiet nod  to light oil exports: Sources  Oil markets have been heavily oversupplied this year due to  increasing output of high quality, light oil from U.S.  shale and lower-than-expected consumption as a  result of faltering global economic growth and  competition from alternative fuels.  Several members of the Organization of  the Petroleum Exporting Countries have suffered supply disruptions in recent  months, but this has had little impact on prices. In Libya, clashes between rival factions have closed oil  ports and terminals this month, reducing  exports from the OPEC producer, which used to  sell over 1 million barrels per day of crude to world  markets, to almost nothing. OPEC, which pumps a third of the world's oil, had been  expected to trim output to try to stabilize  prices, but it decided in November to  keep production unchanged and let the market  find its own level. Read More Saudi Arabia doesn't care  about volatile oil  PVM Oil Associates analyst Tamas Varga saw no let-up in the  sell-off, saying "the bears" were in firm control of  the market. "The trend is still down and supports are expected to be  under pressure. It is not recommended to go  against this trend," he said. Reuters technical analyst Wang Tao said Brent may fall to  $54.98 while U.S. oil is expected to drop to  $52.10. Read MoreHow to pick junk-bond jewels despite oil's  slide Investors awaited U.S. inventory data. The American  Petroleum Institute was scheduled to release  data on Tuesday while the U.S. Department  of Energy's Energy Information Administration  will issue data on Wednesday. A Reuters poll forecast U.S. crude inventories would show a  drop of 900,000 barrels, after a rise to their  highest recorded level for December in the week  ended on Dec. 19.Correction: This story has been updated to reflect the correct closing price for U.S. crude oil.  