  Crude oil prices edged up for a fourth consecutive session on  Wednesday, close to their highest levels since mid-2015, ahead of  U.S. oil inventory figures and as the market awaits evidence of  OPEC supply reductions in the new year. U.S. benchmark West Texas Intermediate (WIT)  crude oil prices settled up 16 cents at $54.06 for the  best close since July 2, 2015. The intraday peak fell just short  of the year's high of $54.51 reached on Dec. 12.  Prices fell after the settle in light of data from industry group  the American Petroleum Institute, which showed a surprise build of 4.2 million barrels in U.S. crude inventories.  Five analysts polled ahead of weekly inventory reports from API and the U.S. Department of Energy's Energy  Information Administration (EIA) estimated, on average, that  crude stocks declined by 1.5 million barrels in the week to Dec.  23.  The EIA report has been rescheduled to Thursday at 11 a.m. EST  (1600 GMT), following the federal holiday on Monday because of  the Christmas holiday. International Brent  crude futures crude futures fell 15 cents to $55.94 a  barrel by 4:41 p.m. ET (2141 GMT). The international benchmark  hit $57.89 on Dec. 12, its highest since July 2015.  Oil prices have gained 25 percent since mid-November, helped by  expectations for OPEC's supply cut and solid U.S. economic  figures that have also bolstered equity prices.  Trading was thin on Wednesday, with just 189,000 front-month futures contracts  changing hands in WTI by 11:07 a.m. ET (1607 GMT), compared with  a daily average of 525,000 over the last 200 days. It is expected  to remain quiet for the balance of the week.  The market is taking a wait-and-see approach on the official  start of the landmark deal reached by the Organization of the  Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and several  non-OPEC members to reduce their output. The deal is set to kick  in from Jan. 1.  OPEC and non-OPEC producers are expected to lower production by  almost 1.8 million barrels per day (bpd), with Saudi Arabia,  OPEC's largest producer, agreeing to bear the lion's share of the  cuts.  Iraqi Oil Minister Jabar Ali al-Luaibi said on Wednesday his  country, which has seen fast production growth in the past two  years, would cut supply by 200,000-210,000 bpd from January.  Luaibi said on a visit to fellow OPEC member Kuwait that he saw  oil prices rising to $60 per barrel as the cuts would help ease  the global glut of the past three years, according to Kuwait News  Agency (KUNA).  "There are mixed expectations of the cuts, trading is thin so the  first two weeks of January would be critical to watch," said  Michael McCarthy, chief market strategist at Sydney's CMC  Markets.  "If there's any misstep or any indication of disagreement to (the  deal), we would see crude prices dropping," he said.  Iranian oil minister Bijan Zanganeh also said on Tuesday he  expected OPEC to abide by the deal. "While competing, we do have  engagement," Iranian news agency Shana quoted him as saying.  In a sign that the world's oil major producers may abide by their  agreement, OPEC member Venezuela said it will cut 95,000 bpd of  oil production in the New Year.  Russian oil producer Gazprom Neft said it planned to boost oil  output by 4.5 percent to 5 percent next year, less than it had  intended before Russia, one of the non-OPEC member countries,  joined a deal to reduce a global supply overhang.