  Oil markets fell more than 2 percent on Thursday, wiping out the  previous day's gains on profit-taking and after a run-up in the  dollar, which weighed on prices of commodities denominated in the  greenback.  The dollar index hit seven-month highs against basket of  currencies and a three-month peak versus the euro after the  European Central Bank kept interest rates unchanged.  On Wednesday, oil settled up about 2 percent, with U.S. crude  closing at its highest level in 15 months, after a large and  unexpected drawdown in U.S. crude stocks.  "After the big run, I think it is very reasonable", Kyle Cooper,  analyst at ION Energy in Houston, said, referring to the price  retreat on profit-taking.  The front-month contract for Brent crude fell  $1.35, or 2.56 percent, at $51.32 per barrel at 2:42 p.m. ET  (1842 GMT).  The front-month in U.S. West Texas Intermediate  (WTI) crude oil, which expires at Thursday's  settlement, was down $1.17, or 2.3 percent, at $50.43 per  barrel. On Wednesday, it hit a July 2015 high of  $51.93.  WTI's more-active second-month position slid $1.17 to $50.65.  The U.S. government has reported crude inventory draws in six of  the past seven weeks, surprising analysts who usually expect a  rise at this time of year from refinery maintenance.  U.S. crude oil stocks have been depleted by 26.5 million barrels  in the past seven weeks, analysts at JCB noted. That is unusual  even when taking into account hurricanes that can disrupt oil  production and supplies by tankers.  In the latest week to Oct. 14, there was a drop of 5.2 million  barrels, while refineries only ran at 85 percent. Lower crude  imports were responsible for the draws, data showed.  Energy monitoring Genscape added to U.S. crude's improved outlook  on Thursday by reporting a drop of nearly 1.25 million barrels in  crude stockpiles the Cushing, Oklahoma delivery hub for WTI  futures for the week to Oct. 18.  While oil markets were down in the latest session, they were  still up about 13 percent from Sept. 27 when the Organization of the  Petroleum Exporting Countries announced its first  planned output cut in 8 years to rein in a global glut that has  halved prices from mid-2014 highs above $100 a barrel.  Many remain skeptical about OPEC's ability to strike and  effectively implement a deal at a Nov. 30 meeting, but the notion of  coordination among the 14 member states has at least put a floor  under Brent and WTI prices at around $50 a barrel.  "Speculative pressure is probably what is driving up prices,"  said Jonathan Chan of Singapore-based Phillip Futures.  Reuters technical commodity analyst Wang Tao said U.S. oil is  expected to break a resistance zone of $51.67 to $52.11 per  barrel, and then rise towards $52.78. Meanwhile, Brent oil may  stabilize around a support at $52.49 per barrel and then retest a  resistance at $53.45.  BMI Research even said it saw "significant potential for an  upwards break in Brent towards $60 per barrel... driven by  bullish technical drivers and supportive conditions in the  broader financial markets," although it added fundamentals did  not warrant much higher prices.  OPEC's November meeting may agree on a half a million to 1  million barrels per day oil production cut. The producer cartel  hopes non-OPEC exporters, especially Russia, will cooperate.