  Oil prices fell as much as 4 percent on Tuesday on signs leading  oil exporters in OPEC were struggling to agree on a deal to cut  production to reduce global oversupply. Brent  crude oil was down $1.87, or 3.9 percent, a barrel at  $46.37 by 2:38 p.m. ET. U.S. light crude  oil settled down $1.85, or 3.9 percent, at $45.23 a  barrel.  The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting  Countries will meet in Vienna on Wednesday aiming to  implement a deal outlined in September to cut output by around 1  million barrels per day (bpd), from around 33.82 million bpd in  October.  But Iran and Iraq were resisting pressure from Saudi Arabia to  curtail oil production, making it hard for OPEC to reach an  agreement. That has led some analysts to suggest the meeting may  fail to reach a deal or produce one that is unworkable.  Ritterbusch, however, said he believes OPEC had a better than 50  percent chance of reaching an agreement, which should offer some  near-term price relief. He noted the burden of actual  curtailments would likely fall on the Persian Gulf producers,  especially the Saudis.  Documents prepared for a ministerial OPEC meeting on Wednesday propose the group cut production by 1.2  million bpd from October levels, an OPEC source familiar with  the papers said.The papers for the meeting also propose Saudi Arabia reduce  production to 10.07 million bpd from 10.54 million bpd in October and that  Iran freeze output at 3.797 million bpd, according to the source.Iran's oil minister earlier on Tuesday said the country was prepared to  leave its oil production at levels to which OPEC had agreed at  its September meeting in Algeria.  OPEC, which accounts for a third of global oil production, agreed  in September to cap output at around 32.5-33.0 million barrels  per day versus the current 33.64 million bpd to prop up oil  prices, which have halved since mid-2014.  OPEC said it would exempt Iran, Libya and Nigeria from cuts as  their output has been crimped by unrest and sanctions.  Non-OPEC producer Russia confirmed on Tuesday it would not attend  the OPEC gathering, but added that a later meeting was possible.  Indonesian Energy Minister Ignasius Jonan said he was not sure  OPEC would clinch a deal to limit oil output when it met.  "I don't know. Let's see. The feeling today is mixed," he told  reporters when asked about the prospects of a deal.  Intense negotiations would be needed on Wednesday to cement a  deal, Goldman Sachs analysts said. If OPEC agreed to cut  production to 32.5 million bpd, crude prices would likely rise to  the low $50s a barrel, Goldman said.  "If no deal is reached, our expectation of rising (crude)  inventories through the first half of 2017 would warrant prices  averaging $45 per barrel through next summer," Goldman said.  In Asia, OPEC's biggest customer region, oil importers made clear  that they would not be happy with an artificial supply cut that  hikes prices, and that in case of a cut they would seek more  supplies from outside OPEC.  In the United States, analysts polled by Reuters ahead of weekly  inventory reports from the American Petroleum Institute (API)  industry group later on Tuesday and the U.S. Energy Information  Administration (EIA) on Wednesday estimated, on average, that  crude stocks increased about 900,000 barrels in the week to Nov.  25..