  tumbled more than 3  percent on Monday on speculation of a nuclear deal that could  boost Iran's oil exports.  U.S. crude fell 17 cents, or  0.3 percent, to settle at $49.59 a barrel. It rose about 1  percent earlier as traders bet the gap between the two would  narrow.  Brent crude was down 2.9 percent, at $59.65. Front-month Brent jumped 18 percent in February, the largest  monthly rise since May 2009.   Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif said a deal on  Iran's nuclear program could be concluded this week if the United  States and other Western countries had sufficient political will  and agreed to remove sanctions on Tehran.  Iranian oil exports have been restricted by sanctions for several  years as the United States and Europe responded to Tehran's  nuclear program, although Iran says its nuclear plans are  peaceful. Read More UAE chiefs play down IMF  downgrade on oil weakness  Analysts say Iran could increase its oil sales fairly quickly if  sanctions were lifted and may eventually be able to raise exports  by up to 1 million barrels per day. A Reuters survey last week  showed Iran pumped around 2.8 million bpd in February.  Brent was also pressured initially by rising Libyan output and a  firmer dollar that weighed on greenback-denominated commodities.  In the case of U.S. crude, its advance versus Brent came after a  smaller-than-expected build in the Cushing, Oklahoma delivery  point, reported by oil services firm Genscape.  Genscape's Cushing report, and the American Petroleum Institute  inventory data on Tuesdays, are a precursor to the government's  weekly crude stockpiles report on Wednesdays.  "The Genscape expectations for a slower rise in crude at Cushing  and returning production in Libya reverses the dynamic in play  last week," Phil Flynn, analyst at Price Futures Group in  Chicago, said, referring to the rally in Brent and bigger Cushing  builds then. Read MoreOil storage in US close to running out:  Pro  Brent's premium to U.S. crude was at below $10.16 a barrel, after  reaching above $13 earlier on Monday.  The spread "became very, very crowded last week as everyone  jumped in" when Brent began fetching a premium above $9, said Ola  Vines at Eagle Commodities Brokers Ltd in London. Read More Harold Hamm: Saudis  view US oil as economic threat  The dollar hit an 11-year high  against a basket of currencies after a rate cut in China dented  the Chinese yuan and also hit emerging Asian currencies. Oil is  priced in dollars on spot markets and a stronger U.S. currency  tends to depress fuel demand from holders of other currencies.  Disruption to oil supplies from members of the Organization of  the Petroleum Exporting Countries has helped support crude with  lower output from Libya and Iraq in the first couple of months of  this year.  Libya's production has risen to more than 400,000 barrels per day  (bpd), officials said.  Carsten Fritsch, senior oil and commodities analyst at  Commerzbank in Frankfurt, said much of the recent strength in oil  had been due to speculative buying. "The market is still  over-supplied," Fritsch told the Reuters Global Oil Forum. Correction: WTI crude futures settled down 17 cents, at  $49.59 a barrel on Monday. An earlier headline misstated the  closing level.