  Oil prices rose on Tuesday after news that the world's top  producers cut production this month more than forecasters had  expected and as the dollar sank.  Prices pared gains after Iraqi Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi  said oil prices will not reach "levels desired" by Iraq before  the end of 2018 or 2019. U.S. light  crude settled 18 cents a barrel higher at $52.86, but posted its first monthly decline since October. It fell 1.7 percent in January as U.S. supply concern offset production cuts by other producers. Brent crude oil was up 45 cents a barrel at $55.68 by 2:36 p.m. ET (1936 GMT).   A Reuters survey showed on Tuesday crude oil supply from the 11  OPEC members with production targets averaged 30.01 million  barrels per day (bpd) in January, versus 31.17 million in  December.  Overall, the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries  achieved 82 percent compliance with its promised production cuts,  well above most market forecasts. That also comfortably exceeds  the initial 60 percent achieved when a similar deal was  implemented in 2009, and the survey adds to indications that  adherence so far has been high.  The dollar was down by 0.8 percent versus a basket of  currencies, boosting greenback-denominated oil. The dollar was on  course for its biggest monthly decline since March.  Both benchmarks have traded within fairly narrow ranges over the  last two months, since the Organization of the Petroleum  Exporting Countries agreed to cut output by almost 1.8  barrel per day (bpd) in an attempt to clear a global glut.  "Direct oil market fundamental news seemed more mixed, with Iran  claiming output in line with its OPEC agreement when the  production level cited was still more than 100,000 bpd above its  target and U.S. refiners still shutting more units for planned  maintenance work," Tim Evans said.  Iran, which was allowed to raise output under the OPEC deal  because sanctions had crimped past supply, pumped an additional  20,000 bpd.  "March Brent crude oil, February heating oil (ULSD), and February  RBOB gasoline futures all expire today and so book squaring will  also be a feature," Evans added.  After an initial price rise on hopes that markets would rebalance  quickly, Brent and U.S. crude futures have both been held back by  evidence of higher U.S. oil drilling and forecasts of a rebound  in shale production.  Following months of increased drilling, U.S. oil production has  risen by 6.3 percent since July last year to almost 9 million  bpd, according to data from the U.S. Energy Information  Administration.  Goldman Sachs estimates that year-on-year U.S. oil "production  will rise by 290,000 bpd in 2017" if a backlog on rigs that are  still to become operational is accounted for.  The differing outlook between global oil markets and the U.S.  market has focused attention on the spread between Brent and U.S.  crude oil futures, also known as West Texas Intermediate or WTI.  Brent's premium over U.S. crude for March is now between $2.50  and $3.00 a barrel, reflecting a tighter market as OPEC's cuts  bite and a more over-supplied U.S. as drilling increases.  The spread was closer to $1 a barrel in November, before OPEC  agreed to cut production.