  U.S. gasoline supplies are piling up, and while that might not  help drivers much, it could be a negative for the price of oil.  The glut is growing as refineries head into spring maintenance  season, which means even less demand for crude to make gasoline.  As for the consumer, prices typically rise at this time of year  but the hike could be slightly less.  Crude inventories increased by 6.5 million barrels in the week  ended Jan. 27, and gasoline inventories rose by 3.9 million  barrels last week and are at above-average levels, according to  Energy Information Administration data. Diesel supplies were also  up 1.6 million barrels.  "You might have the oddity of gasoline prices moving higher while  crude oil stays in a range. That's because there's enough  refinery maintenance that there's going to be substantially less  demand for crude oil from Feb. 15 to April 15," said Tom Kloza,  global energy analyst at Oil Price Information Service.  The fuel stockpiles are building even as the U.S. has been  exporting record amounts of fuel, and refineries have cut back on  output as they perform turnaround maintenance before switching to  summer fuels. Exports of gasoline totaled 902,000 barrels a day  last week, off recent highs but the four-week average of 922,000  barrels is double the amount exported a year ago. Diesel exports  were at 880,000 barrels, off from the week earlier's 1.1 million  barrels a day.  "If we come out of turnarounds and margins are terrible because  product inventories build instead of draw, we could be looking at  a correction in late February, March time frame, which sets the  stage for basically higher lows," said Michael Cohen, head of  energy commodities research at Barclays. Cohen said he is  expecting a slightly lower price for oil than he previously  forecast. He shaved his first-quarter average price for Brent,  the international benchmark to $55 per barrel from $57 but he  retained an average $57 for the year.  was just under $57  Wednesday, and U.S. West Texas Intermediate oil futures were a  few dollars below that at $53.73 per barrel.Cohen said the outlook will also depend on what OPEC decides at it's spring meeting and whether producers continue to comply.  Kloza said U.S. oil production may also become a factor for prices. He  said government data showed November output at 8.9 million  barrels a day, about a half million barrels more than OPEC  anticipated when it reached a deal with Russia and other  producers to cut production.  "U.S refiners are going to move into turnarounds and they're  going to be using less crude, a million barrels a day less. At  the same time, we're going to be producing 400,000 to 500,000  more a day than what was expected. ... That's going to have an  impact. That's a million and a half difference on balance. It  looks like [prices] should be somewhat sluggish," Kloza said. Oil  prices were higher Wednesday amid signs that OPEC producers  and non-OPEC countries, like Russia were keeping their commitment  to cut output to boost prices. Oil was also supported by comments from U.S. National Security Advisor Michael Flynn said the White House is putting Iran on notice. He said thewarning is a response to Iran carrying out a ballistic missile test.  