  U.S. oil prices surged 5.18 percent on Wednesday after the U.S. government reported a  surprise draw in domestic crude stockpiles.  Crude stocks fell 4.9 million barrels last week as  refineries continued to hike output and imports dropped, the  Energy Information Administration (EIA) reported.  Analysts polled by Reuters had expected inventories to hit record  highs for an eighth straight week with a build of 3.2 million  barrels. U.S. crude  futures settled at $37.75 a barrel, up $1.86, or 5.18 percent.  International Brent futures rose $1.91 to $39.76 a barrel.  U.S. crude futures found additional support from TransCanada  Corp's delayed restart of its 590,000 barrel per day Keystone  pipeline that delivers crude to Cushing and Illinois.  U.S. futures' front-month was at its narrowest discount in three  weeks to the second month following the outage.  Brent was also underpinned by planned maintenance works at  Norway's Ekofisk and Britain's Buzzard oil fields.  The rally represented a sentiment shift in oil after last week's  7 percent drop in U.S. crude futures and 4 percent in Brent amid  worries the global glut in oil was growing again while producing  countries' plans to freeze output would fail.  The EIA also reported that gasoline stocks rose for the first  time in six weeks, potentially snapping a pillar of support to  U.S. crude prices. Stockpiles at the Cushing, Oklahoma, delivery  hub for U.S. crude futures, another key data point, also rose.  But traders chose to focus on more bullish aspects of the  inventory report like the crude draw and the drop in crude  imports of nearly 450,000 bpd.  "I think the market is more about the total change in (crude)  inventories, rather than individual components," said Scott  Shelton, energy broker with ICAP in Durham, North Carolina. "It's  the first week of the second quarter and we have a net draw. That  will force the bears to rethink their bearish balances for Q2."  Refinery runs rose by almost 200,000 bpd as utilization rates  rose 1 percentage point.  Russia believes an oil price at $45-$50 per barrel is acceptable  to allow the global oil market to balance, as it prepares to meet  leading oil producers in Doha later this month, sources familiar  with Russian plans said on Wednesday.  Kuwait's OPEC governor said on Tuesday that the meeting on April 17 will deliver an  agreement to hold output at January highs, despite Tehran pouring  cold water on the plan.  An initial output freeze proposal in February has helped oil prices  rise from a 12-year low close to $27 a barrel seen in January.  Prices have fallen in recent days on doubts that a wider deal  will be reached, largely because Iran has so far said it has no  intention of slowing its production after crippling sanctions  against it were lifted in January.  With Iran's exports rising and other producers pledging to freeze  output near record-high levels, an agreement would do little to  address a global supply overhang that sees at least a million  barrels of crude produced every day in excess of demand.