 U.S. crude settled below $78  a barrel on Monday.  also dropped, with both reversing early gains as U.S.  dollar strength outweighed worries about conflict in Libya and  Ukraine.  The  rose 0.2 percent  against a basket of currencies on Monday, regaining ground after  dropping in European trade. Recent dollar strength has made oil  and other commodities more expensive for holders of other  currencies, suppressing demand.  Persistent concerns about a global surplus of crude amid signs of  slowing growth has also pressured oil prices, which have fallen  nearly 30 percent since June. Read MoreWorst east Ukraine shelling for month;  ceasefire looks in doubt  U.S. front-month crude futures closed $1.25  lower at $77.40 per barrel, after touching a session high of $79.85 earlier.  Brent crude also pared earlier gains and was last down more than $1 at $82 per barrel. The spread between the two global benchmarks  widened slightly.  "There's been a lot of pressure of WTI [U.S. crude] today, there  was a big huge reversal as we did see the dollar turn around,"  said Phillip Streible, senior market strategist at RJO Futures in  Chicago. "I think we will probably consolidate around this range,  everyone is looking ahead to the OPEC meeting." Read MoreCrude oil hasn't bottomed yet, traders  say   The Nov. 27 meeting of the Organization of the Petroleum  Exporting Countries is a key focal point for a market awash with  supply, but so far the cartel has given no clear indication that  it will cut its output.  Kuwaiti Oil Minister Ali al-Omair said on Monday that OPEC was  unlikely to cut production.  Intraday profit-taking meant crude's earlier gains on disruptions  in Libya and heightened military activity in Ukraine were  short-lived. Read MoreOil's secret buy sign  "A stronger dollar and slower global growth continue to weigh on  the market," said Oliver Sloup, director of managed futures at  iiTRADER in Chicago. "When rallies happen, they are being taken  as an opportunity to sell."  In Libya, an armed brigade from Operation Dawn, one of the  factions backing the rival government, took control of the  country's largest oilfield, El Sharara, a commander in charge of  security at the site said. If confirmed, it would be the first  attempt to take physical control of oil production by the rival  government.  Meanwhile in Ukraine, goverment forces shelled the pro-Moscow  stronghold of Donetsk on Sunday, putting a fragile cease-fire  under pressure. An escalation of tensions in Ukraine could  disrupt Europe's gas supplies from Russia, potentially increasing  demand for oil.