  Oil prices were up as much as 3 percent on Wednesday after a  surprise drop in crude stockpiles reported by the U.S.  government, marking a third weekly decline in the closely watched  data.  Prices were slightly higher after the Federal Reserve said it  would leave interest  rates unchanged. The dollar fell after the announcement, making  dollar-denominated commodities, such as crude oil, more  affordable to holders of other currencies. Brent crude futures were up 99 cents, or 2.16 percent at $46.87 per barrel by 2:40 p.m. ET, while U.S. West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude  futures climbed $1.28, or 2.91 percent, to $45.33 a  barrel.  The U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) said domestic  crude inventories fell by 6.2 million barrels for the week ended  Sept. 16, versus a 3.4 million-barrel drop forecast by oil market  analysts polled by Reuters.  Crude stocks in the world's largest oil consumer have fallen  since this month began. Some 14.5 million barrels were reported  drawn for the week ended Sept. 2, the biggest weekly drop in 15  years after a tropical storm that slowed the arrival of oil  imports in the U.S. Gulf Coast. In the subsequent week to Sept.  9, there was another decline of 559,000 barrels.  While the draws have put a bullish face of sorts on oil, they  also contrast with surging production from OPEC and other major  producers such as Russia, causing a swing in crude prices lately.  "We are still very well supplied for this time of year," said  Tariq Zahir, trader in crude oil spreads at Tyche Capital  Advisors in New York.  Some market participants were puzzled by the U.S. crude draw when  imports as a whole rose and refinery runs fell.  U.S. crude imports rose last week by 77,000 barrels per day, but  the rate dropped sharply in the U.S. Gulf, falling about 500,000  bpd to 2.9 million bpd, close to the record low of 2.5 million  bpd hit in the week to Sept. 2 when the storm disrupted supplies.  Refinery crude runs fell 143,000 bpd as utilization rates fell  0.9 percentage point but were still high at 92 percent of total  capacity. U.S. gasoline  futures rose 2 percent after data showed stocks of the motor  fuel fell 3.2 million barrels nationwide, compared with analysts'  expectations for a 567,000-barrel drop.  That contrasted with record builds in the Gulf Coast and record  draws in the East Coast, amid a near two-week outage on a key  gasoline line that runs from the refining hub in the south to  northeast. The line was to reopen on Wednesday.  "The Colonial pipeline mess is evident in the gasoline data,  which showed supplies stranded in the Gulf and drawn down in the  East. We will have to see if the trends normalize next week,"  said John Kilduff, partner at New York energy hedge fund Again  Capital in New York.  Adding to the upward price momentum was an oil service workers  strike in Norway that could impact output from western Europe's  biggest crude producing region.  Key for the market is next week's meeting in Algeria between  producers from the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting  Countries (OPEC) and Russia to discuss measures to rein  in oversupply, including an output freeze at current levels, but  analysts said they did not expect significant results.  "Even with a freeze — which would still mean OPEC production  is at record levels — we will still be in an oversupplied  market," said Matt Stanley, a fuel broker at Freight Investor  Services (FIS) in Dubai.  Oil prices initially fell in the previous session on pessimism  that OPEC members and other major crude producers will reach an  output freeze deal during Sept. 26-28 informal talks in Algeria.  Saudi Arabia, Iran, Iraq, Nigeria and Libya, five of OPEC's  largest oil exporters, have all raised or been trying to hike  output in recent months even while talking of a freeze.  But at midday, short-covering and fresh buying emerged from  traders who feared a rally if OPEC announce a deal in Algeria.  OPEC Secretary-General Mohammed Barkindo said he expected the  potential freeze deal between OPEC and other producers to freeze  output to last one year, longer than previously thought.