  Oil prices tumbled on Tuesday as investors  worried Britain's exit from the European Union would slow the  global economy.   Persistent signs of abundant supply despite another militant  attack on Nigeria's oil industry also weighed on markets.  Brexit worries hit Britain's property market and drove the pound  to a 31-year low. A flurry of data from China in the coming weeks  is expected to show weakness in trade and investment.  Traders said oil prices were also pressured by data from market  intelligence firm Genscape showing a build of 230,025 barrels at  the Cushing, Oklahoma storage hub for U.S. crude futures, during  the week to July 1.  "There are risk-off trades across the board," said David  Thompson, executive vice-president at Washington-based  commodities broker Powerhouse. "Stocks, commodities, sterling are  all off while U.S. bond and T-bills are soaring." Brent  crude was down $2.10, or 4.2 percent, at $48 a barrel. The global benchmark is still up more  than 70 percent from a 12-year low close near $28 reached in  January. U.S.  crude settled 4.88 percent lower, or $2.39, at $46.60 a barrel.  prices fell about 7 percent to just below $2.78 per  million British thermal units, on pace for their worst day since  October, 2015.   "Asia has been relatively weak and China is not providing much  support," said Olivier Jakob, oil analyst at Petromatrix, who  also said weak refined products were pressuring crude.  "Without the support of the products and with a structure in  crude oil that is weakening, it is difficult to think that crude  can break away to the upside."  British bank Barclays said concern over the global economy was  weighing.  "The deterioration in the global economic outlook, financial  market uncertainty and ripple effects on key areas of oil demand  growth are likely to exacerbate already-lackluster industrial  demand growth trends," the bank said in a report.  Oil has gained support this year from the perception that a  supply glut that has halved oil prices in the last two years may  be easing, and from unplanned outages from Canada to Nigeria. But  signs of ample supply of crude and products persist.  A partial recovery in Nigeria contributed to a rise in OPEC crude  production last month, a Reuters survey found last week. Several  tankers carrying gasoline-making components have dropped anchor  off New York harbor, unable to discharge as onshore tanks are  full.  Another attack in Nigeria had a limited impact on prices.  A militant group that has been  attacking the country's oil installations said on  Tuesday it blew up a well and two pipelines, having claimed  responsibility on Sunday for five other attacks.  In Libya, where oil output has slowed to a trickle due to  conflict, the National Oil Corporation has agreed to merge with  its domestic rival, raising hopes the OPEC country could start to  pump more.  "Further downward price pressure is expected as signs of an  oversupplied global market refuse to go away," said oil broker  PVM, adding that "macroeconomic risk" was scaring buyers away.  A Reuters review of disclosures by the largest 30 U.S. shale  firms showed 17 of them increased their hedge books in the first  quarter, the most at least since early 2015.  Several, including EOG  Resources and Devon Energy, two of the biggest shale companies,  secured significant protection of future earnings for the first  time in at least six months.  "You have to remember that sentiment in this market is still so  fragile," said Michael Tran, director of commodity strategy at  RBC Capital Markets in New York. "Producers ended up locking in  something in case we did a double dip."