  Oil price gains eased after jumping as much as 3 percent on Thursday, as a raging wildfire near Canada's oil sands  region and escalating Libyan violence raised worries about  immediate oil supplies.  The wildfire near Fort McMurray in Alberta, Canada, has grown  five times its initial size and spread south on Thursday, forcing  more evacuations after 88,000 people fled the city in the  nation's energy heartland since Tuesday. Some pipelines in the  region have been shut as a precaution and output at several  facilities were disrupted, though affected volumes were unclear.  In Libya, the state's already crippled oil production was at  further risk from a stand-off between eastern and western  political factions that prevented a Glencore cargo from loading. Brent crude  futures rose 41 cents, or 0.9 percent, on the day to  $45.03 a barrel, after soaring more  than $2 earlier to $46.77.  U.S. West Texas  Intermediate (WTI) futures settled 54 cents higher, or 1.2 percent, at $44.32, after rallying to $46.07 earlier.  Brent's premium over WTI briefly vanished when the U.S. market  traded at a premium before returning to its narrowest discount,  or "contango," in six weeks against the European benchmark.  On the WTI complex itself, the discount for front-month June over  second month July fell to its smallest in seven months, driven by  the potential for reduced shipments of Canadian crude to U.S.  refiners.  "The $2 move in WTI is large relative to the size of the outage,"  said Jackie Forrest, vice president in energy research at ARC  Financial Corp in Calgary.  Just earlier this week, crude prices were losing steam after  rallying more than 20 percent in April, giving Brent its best  month in 7 years.  Over Monday and Tuesday, both benchmarks lost about 6 percent  each as frenzied pumping by producers such as Iran, Iraq, Saudi  Arabia and Russia renewed glut worries that forced prices below  $30 a barrel from mid-2014 highs above $100.  "The market was again rescued by a larger than expected pace of  U.S. production decline and overnight headlines regarding  disrupted supply out of Canada and Libya," said Jim Ritterbusch  of Chicago-based oil consultancy Ritterbusch & Associates.  Investment firm ETF Securities said unplanned outages within the  Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, including  Libya, stood above 2 million barrels per day, the highest in at  least five years.  "We are likely to be in a global oil supply deficit by Q3 2016,"  said Nitesh Shah, director of commodity strategy at ETF  Securities.  But some analysts said oil prices were on an unsustainable path  higher with U.S. crude stockpiles hitting record highs above 543  million barrels last week with a surprising bearish build even in  gasoline.  "The market seems willing to latch on to any bullish news item  generally," BNP Paribas global head of commodity strategy Harry  Tchilinguirian said.