 Oil prices resumed their downward march on Monday, doubling  back on the biggest one-day gain in over two years, after Saudi  Arabia's powerful oil minister said OPEC would not cut production at any  price. U.S. crude's front-month contract settled down $1.87, or 3.3 percent, at $55.26 a  barrel--not far from it's session low.  It closed up nearly 5 percent on Friday, the largest gain  since August 2012, as some traders took profits on short  positions after prices hit five-year lows. Read MoreCrude price slide hits oil exporter  currencies  fell $1, or nearly 2 percent, to $60 after  hitting session bottom at $59.93.  After a weekend of comments from several Gulf OPEC members  reiterating their intent not to intervene in oil markets, despite  oil prices that have halved since June, Ali al-Naimi told the  Middle East Economic Survey it was "not in the interest of OPEC  producers to cut their production, whatever the price  is"—his starkest comments yet.  Naimi also said the Saudis might boost output instead to grow  their market share and that oil "may not" trade at $100 again.  "The best thing for everybody is to let the most efficient  producers produce," he told a conference in Abu Dhabi at the  weekend.  "The Saudis seem to be continuing with their game plan to shock  prices lower by sticking it to the market that they will put more  oil out if they have more customers for whatever price they are  comfortable in selling," said John Kilduff, partner at New York  energy hedge fund Again Capital. Read MoreWhy this is not the end of  oil's plunge  "It seems like an all-out strategy on their part to finish all  the weak players in the market who can't survive at sub-$60 or  even sub-$50 oil."  Crude at below $60 has pushed various oil drillers to pare  spending on exploration in 2015 and delay, even cancel, drilling  projects. Some analysts think the industry has to do more to  ensure steady price recovery.  "We have found that in the past, it has taken approximately 100  days after the market has bottomed to start a sustainable rally,"  Macquarie Capital's Vikas Dwivedi said in a note.  "We believe enough upstream capital spending cuts are under way  around the world to allow the oil market to rebalance but  probably not until early 2016."  Gasoline prices also retreated, falling 1 percent from Friday's  more than 2 percent gain, its best since October. Read More