 Oil hit a near six-year low on Tuesday, with U.S. crude paring some  losses on short covering and reaching parity with  for the first time in three  months, as traders continued to wonder when the six-month long  price rout might end.  Oil prices are have already traded lower for seven consecutive  weeks, and so far this week Brent is down 8 percent and U.S.  crude down about 5 percent.  U.S. crude settled down 18 cents, at $45.89 a barrel, its  lowest level since April 2009.  Brent crude was down $1 at $46 a barrel after a session low at  $45.19.  The arbitrage between U.S. crude and Brent crude oil futures  traded at parity for the first time since October, with both  markets at $46 a barrel at one point. Traders said it was not immediately clear why the  benchmarks converged, but analysts said it was a combination of  oversupplied global markets coupled with short covering on the  U.S. crude contract. Read MoreOil falls below $45 as OPEC  plays hardball "The stock market rallied and that helped U.S. crude and  the $44 a barrel level had been a target number for traders and  U.S. crude held above that early on Tuesday," said Phil Flynn,  analyst at Price Futures Group in Chicago.  Prices were little changed after the U.S. Energy Information  Administration raised its 2015 world oil demand growth forecast  by 120,000 barrels per day from its previous  estimate. In its monthly forecast, EIA projected 2016  world oil demand to hit 93.42 million bpd, up 1.03 million bpd  from 2015. Oil's plunge earlier in the session came after big producer  United Arab Emirates defended OPEC's decision not to cut output. Read MoreShort sellers ganging up on  oil companies  The United Arab Emirates' oil minister, Suhail bin Mohammed  al-Mazroui, said on Tuesday that OPEC's decision in November not  to cut output had been right. He also said that U.S. shale oil  was an important part of global oil supplies.  "Shale oil producers are very important for the market supply and  we all need them to stay,'' he said, adding that the market would  stabilize at a level at which conventional producers can sell  profitably, "whether $60 or $70 or $80.''  Adding to the glut are slowing Asian economies, which now face  deflationary pressures.  "Even without the full effect of the recent collapse in energy  prices, GDP deflator in the region (Asia) ... is estimated to  have slipped. We believe that weaker aggregate demand is at the  heart of this generalized deflationary pressure,'' U.S. bank  Morgan Stanley said on Tuesday. Read MoreOil is at or near a bottom:  Strategist  The downward pressure on prices is so big that even record  Chinese crude imports for December could not lift the market for  long. China imported above 7 million barrels a day for  the first time as the world's No. 2 oil consumer took advantage  of low prices to build up reserves.  Meanwhile, banks have slashed their oil price outlook, with  analysts at Goldman Sachs cutting  their average forecast for Brent in 2015 to $50.40 a barrel from  $83.75.