  Oil prices tested the $50-per-barrel mark on Thursday as  production outages brought a faster-than-expected recovery to an  oversupplied market.  Global benchmark Brent crude oil was down 35 cents at $49.40, having  earlier risen as high as $50.51 in intraday trading. U.S. crude  futures settled down 0.16 percent, or 8 cents, at $49.48  a barrel, and were last down 22 cents at $49.34 a barrel, after  rising to $50.21, the highest since mid-October.  The daily settle came as presumptive Republican presidential  nominee Donald Trump criticized environmental regulations on oil and coal.  While a crude glut could grow in coming months if demand stalls,  wildfires in Canada's oil sands, unrest in the Nigerian and  Libyan energy sectors, and a near economic meltdown in OPEC  member Venezuela have knocked out nearly 4 million barrels per  day in immediate production.  That has enabled futures of Brent and U.S. crude's West Texas  Intermediate (WTI) to gain nearly 90 percent from the 12-year  lows seen this winter, and recoup about half of what they lost  since mid-2014 when both traded at above $100 a barrel.  But some market watchers say oil's climb to above $50 for the  first time in seven months could spur producers, particularly  U.S. shale drillers, to revive scrapped operations that could  again bloat supplies and trigger a selloff.  "I am maintaining my oil view at neutral with a short-term bias  to the upside," said Dominick Chirichella, senior partner at the  Energy Management Institute in New York. "The global surplus  still exists and there is still a possibility that oil prices  could retrace further."  But he conceded that crude was trading "more and more in sync  with the forward looking or perception view, with the overall  bearish fundamentals mostly priced into the market as production  issues offset any short term negativity."  Adding to outage concerns, a source at Chevron said the producer's activities  in Nigeria had been "grounded" by a militant attack, worsening a  situation that had already restricted hundreds of thousands of  barrels from reaching the market.  Investors will be watching next month's meeting of  the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting  Countries (OPEC) for signs of a output hike now that oil  had reached $50.  OPEC officials gathered in Vienna ahead of the June 2 meeting of  the group's oil ministers have said any official change to its  output policy was unlikely.  A larger-than-expected draw in U.S. crude oil inventories last  week indicated buyers are starting to mop up spare supply.  Still, a fight for market share between key members Saudi Arabia  and Iran is causing a concern for investors.  "The bigger risk is that following the meeting, (the) Saudis will  increase production to meet rising summer domestic demand, to  preserve market share in its oil wars with Iran and Iraq," David  Hufton, head of PVM Oil brokers, said.— CNBC's Tom DiChristopher and Jacob Pramuk contributed to this report. 