  A bigger-than-expected build in U.S. crude inventories to fresh  record highs pushed oil markets down after an early rally on  Wednesday over concerns about production cuts in Canada's oil  sands region.  U.S. crude stocks, which have been setting record highs since  January, grew 2.8 million barrels last week, government data  showed, about a million barrels more than analysts' expectations.  Gasoline stocks also posted a surprise increase.  The data overshadowed concerns over evacuations in the Canadian  province of Alberta, where a wildfire raged unchecked through the  Canadian city of Fort McMurray in the heart of the country's oil  sands region, prompting some companies, including Suncor Energy  and Royal Dutch Shell, to cut back production.  "It's hard to see how it (the wildfire) wouldn't have a broader  impact temporarily on pipeline exports," said John Kilduff, a  partner at Again Capital Management in New York. "I think it was  a legitimate scare that will prove transitory." Brent crude  futures were down 25 cents at $44.72 per barre, after trading as high as $46.01. U.S.  crude settled 13 cents higher, or 0.3 percent, at $43.78, after  hitting a session high at $44.88. WTI also snapped a three-day losing streak.  Brent crude has fallen more than 5 percent from Friday's high in  response to rising output from the Organization of the Petroleum  Exporting Countries, signs of economic slowdown in the United  States and Asia, and a stronger dollar.  "It would not come as any surprise if speculative financial  investors were to take profits against this news backdrop," said  Carsten Fritsch, analyst at Commerzbank.  While total OPEC output rose in April, outages around the world  have been supporting prices. The Canada disruption adds to supply  losses in Nigeria and Iraq, concern about renewed losses in Libya  and fears that Venezuela's cash crunch could hit the OPEC  member's output.  Some believe the rally has further to go in 2016 as the supply  glut eases.  "Investor optimism for oil has markedly improved," said Nitesh  Shah of ETF Securities. "We believe the gains in price are  sustainable and not just driven by speculative gains."  Barclays said that "unplanned outages look unlikely to abate in  the next couple of months, which have contributed to a tighter  1H16 oil market" and that "lower spare capacity, heightened  disruption risk in Iraq and Venezuela, and lower supply ex-U.S.  mean prices will likely average higher in Q4 than previously  forecast."   The bank said that it expected Brent to average $44 per barrel  this year, an upward revision of $5 from its previous outlook,  and U.S. crude to average $42 a barrel this year.   In oil production, U.S. output has fallen from a peak of over 9.6  million barrels per day (bpd) in summer last year to just over  8.8 million bpd currently, triggering one of the biggest wave of  bankruptcies in American corporate history.   But inventories, particularly the latest from the EIA, suggest  supply is more than ample for now. — CNBC's Tom DiChristopher contributed to this story.Correction: This story has been updated to show U.S. crude inventories increased by 2.8 million barrels.