  U.S. crude oil closed slightly higher on Thursday, after earlier  rallying with gasoline and as technical charts suggested a price  rebound.  A two-week high in the dollar also reduced some of the upward potential for  crude, even as a surge in share prices on Wall Street bolstered  sentiment, oil dealers said.  U.S.  crude for December delivery closed up 18 cents, at  $45.38 a barrel, having briefly turned negative. It hit a  three-week low of $44.86 on Wednesday.  Brent for December delivery rose 11 cents to $48.10 a barrel. The global crude benchmark finished down  86 cents, or 1.8 percent, on Wednesday, after hitting $47.50, its  lowest since early October.  Read More Oil prices  should recover next year: Hess CEO  "The strength in products is definitely helping crude," Pete  Donovan, broker at New York's Liquidity Energy, said, referring  to the near 3 percent rise in gasoline prices.  "We also seem to be getting some short covering as support holds  at $45 for WTI." Gasoline rallied  as traders re-evaluated Wednesday's U.S. government data showing  a 1.5 million-barrel decline in inventories of the motor fuel  last week, compared with a 858,000-barrel drop forecast in a  Reuters poll.  Technical buyers were also coming back into the market, said  Fawad Razaqzada, analyst at City Index.  "We are at an ideal area for bulls to step in after the  retracement from the lows," Razaqzada said, citing the pullback  in Brent since its Sept. 15 low of under $46. Read More5 reasons oil could be  nearing a new tipping point  Some traders remained pessimistic of the outlook for oil prices  though, after last week's build of 8 million barrels in crude,  which was more than double that forecast by analysts in the  Reuters poll.  The fourth weekly build in crude inventories came despite a pick  up in oil processing works during the autumn maintenance season  for U.S. refineries.  Rising U.S. crude stockpiles aside, OPEC's inability to get oil  producers to agree to meaningful measures to boost prices will  also weigh on the market, the traders said.Read More  'Urgency' for oil exporters to adjust spending: IMF  A meeting of oil exports from OPEC and non-member countries ended  on Wednesday without any concrete price support measures despite  discussing the risk low oil prices would have on investment in  new supplies.  "There are no signs of any sort of production cuts, which would  have to start from within OPEC," said John Mac, trader in crude  oil spreads at Tyche Capital Advisors in Laurel Hollow, New York.