  US crude settled below $80 a barrel on Friday after China cut interest  rates and on speculation OPEC could agree to reduce oil  production. U.S. crude's front-month contract  settled 66 cents higher, or 0.9 percent, at $76.51, after briefly turning lower earlier.   The front-month contract for benchmark Brent crude was up  by nearly $1 at $80 a barrel, after having risen $2.28 earlier to  a session high of $81.61.  China's central bank cut its benchmark interest rates for the  first time in more than two years to reduce borrowing costs  and support an economy on track for its slowest annual growth in  24 years.  China is the largest net importer of petroleum and metals, and  the rate cut sent most commodity prices surging. Read MoreWhy oil is more likely to test $100  again next year Expectations of an output cut from the Organization of the  Petroleum Exporting Countries at its Nov. 27 meeting initially  added to the rally.  But profit-takers emerged later, along with those selling to push  the market down on bets that oil prices will tumble again next  week. Read MoreUS shale and OPEC oil: Game of  chicken?  "We continue to see a bear market for crude, and we've used any  opportunity at all in the market's strength to sell into it, in  any small way we could," said Tariq Zahir, managing member of  Tyche Capital Advisors in Laurel Hollow, New York.  "We don't think OPEC will do much to their production; even if  they do cut to support prices a little, they've never been strict  with their export quotas before." Read MoreStuck again: Iran nuclear talks set to  hit hurdles  Market bets on the outcome of the OPEC meeting vary, although  traders and analysts have been more optimistic in recent days  that OPEC will try to stop a near 30 percent price drop since  June caused by oversupply worries.  "This market has been sold out so much that any kind of fresh  bullish news is going to cause a price pop," said Thomas Saal,  analyst at INTL FC Stone in Miami, Florida.  OPEC heavyweight Saudi Arabia has not committed to a cut. But  Russia said on Friday Riyadh had expressed "a willingness to  cooperate on issues related to energy and oil markets.".  Venezuela has also said it will curb its own output if OPEC  agreed to do so.