  Oil prices were up about 1 percent on Monday after comments  by Iran's leader exhorting the need for other oil producers to  join OPEC in supporting the market.  Rouhani's remarks added to the bullish fervor in the market since  last week after the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting  Countries announced its first planned output cut in eight years.  December Brent crude futures were last up 62 cents, or 1.2 percent, at $50.81 a barrel by 3 p.m. (1900 GMT), retreating  from a six-week high of $50.90.  U.S. West Texas Intermediate (WTI) settled up 57 cents, or 1.2 percent, at $48.81 a barrel. It earlier hit $49.02, its highest since July 5.  Europe and Asia's largest markets, Germany and China, were both  shut for public holidays on Monday, limiting trade.  Crude futures were volatile, moving up again by noon in New York  toward session highs after drifting most of the morning due to a  weaker Wall Street and a dollar.  "It's kind of a light volume day and we're moving from headline  to headline, but still Iran telling Venezuela that all countries  are going to have to join this production cut is gaining traction  because there are many who want to believe this deal will get  done," said Phil Flynn, analyst at the Price Futures Group  brokerage in Chicago.  "There's already a soft commitment from Russia that it will be  part of the OPEC plan and if more non-OPEC members get on board,  prices can only go higher."  Oil rallied last week, ending September higher for a second  monthly gain in a row, after the Organization of the Petroleum  Exporting Countries said it would cut output to between  32.5 million barrels per day (bpd) and 33 million bpd from about  33.5 million bpd, with details to be finalized at its policy  meeting in November.  OPEC member Iran, the No. 4 crude exporter, will sign on Tuesday  a new petroleum contract that would be cornerstone to raising its  crude output to the pre-sanction levels of 4 million bpd.  "Naysayers will undoubtedly fade the headline (of the output cut)  and deem the agreement typical OPEC noise, yet at a minimum it  means that OPEC has bought themselves a price floor for at least  the next two months heading into the November meeting," analysts  at RBC Capital Markets said in a note.  Initial skepticism last week over the effectiveness of the deal  in eroding the global surplus gave way to a wave of  short-covering that drove the price above $50 a barrel for the  first time since late August on Monday.  "The lukewarm response to the OPEC deal from analysts (rightfully  so) probably attracted some premature selling, with technical  traders currently in the driving seat. Oil always runs ahead of  itself and this time round is no exception," Saxo Bank manager  Ole Hansen said, referring to the price rally.  OPEC's oil output is likely to reach 33.6 million bpd in  September from a revised 33.53 million bpd in August, its highest  in recent history, a Reuters survey found on Friday.  "Sentiment has been slightly dented by a Reuters survey Friday,  showing that despite agreeing to cut production OPEC pumped crude  in record amounts through September," said Jeffrey Halley, senior  market analyst at brokerage OANDA in Singapore.  Data last week from the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission  showed money managers raised their net long holdings of U.S.  crude futures in the week to Sept. 27.  Analysts said there was downside risk to oil prices if the  planned cut wasn't deep enough to bring production back in line  with consumption.   "OPEC has created its own Q4 risk to oil prices ... In raising  expectations of a November deal to cut production, it also risks  a steep price decline should it fail to achieve its goal of  cutting output back to less than 33 million bpd," Barclays said  in a note to clients.  Despite that, the bank said it did not expect a repeat of the  price crash seen late last year after a rally earlier in 2015,  citing an improving Asian economic growth outlook, falling oil  supplies and rising investor interest in oil markets as support  factors.