  U.S. oil rose nearly 3 percent Tuesday as supply disruptions of 2.5 million barrels  per day in Canada and elsewhere offset concerns about growing  record high U.S. crude stockpiles.  A series of attacks on Nigeria's oil infrastructure has pushed  crude output close to a 22-year low in Africa's largest oil  producer, Reuters data showed.  In Canada alone, a wildfire that scorched a sizable part of  Alberta's oiltown Fort McMurray has knocked out 1.6 million bpd  from producers and pipeline operators that have shut facilities  as precaution, consultancy Energy Aspects said.  Repair crews on Tuesday were assessing the damage after an  initial inspection by officials showed the Canadian energy  boomtown was spared the worst as nearby oil sands companies  looked to resume production.  The disruptions eclipsed worries about rising U.S. crude  inventories, which were expected to have grown for a fifth  straight week last week to record highs above 543 million  barrels. Data from the American Petroleum Institute, due at 4:30  p.m. ET, was expected to show a half a million-barrel build.  "I think we are still in bull market, but I also think the  headwinds are increasing," Scott Shelton, energy broker with ICAP  in Durham, North Carolina, said, referring to the heightened  volatility in crude futures since April's rally of 20 percent or  more. Brent crude  futures were up more than 4 percent, at $45.55. On Monday, it fell  3.8 percent.  U.S. crude  futures settled $1.22 higher, or 2.8 percent, at $44.66 a barrel.  Refined products were also firmer, with U.S. gasoline futures  gaining 2 percent and ultra-low sulfur diesel, also known as  heating oil, soaring 3 percent. Both had fallen about 4 percent  in the previous session.  Macquarie said in a research note that with crude production in  decline in the United States and outside the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting  Countries, global oil markets could be on the path to  rebalance by the end of 2016.  "With firmer Q4/Q1 activity driving these observed declines, we  remain confident that activity levels will need to rise and WTI  prices will need to stay above $40 for U.S. land production to  stabilize in a timely manner," it said.  Weekly data on speculative holdings of crude futures has shown  investors are cooling a little towards oil.  "We've seen the market slump 10 pct from the highs since this  (Canada) news came in, which suggests that there are other fish  to fry at the moment," Saxo Bank senior manager Ole Hansen  said.  "The big reaction yesterday to the change in Canada gave an  indication that the market has become a bit more focused on  selling into rallies..."