  Oil prices fell as much as 1 percent on Tuesday as worries about  a stubborn global petroleum glut offset forecasts for a weekly  drop in U.S. crude inventories.  Prices ended the previous day's upward momentum as speculation  fizzled that the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting  Countries and other oil producers would embark on another round  of talks on price cooperation.  U.S. West Texas Intermediate  crude settled 25 cents lower, or 0.58 percent, to  $42.77. Brent  crude was down 37 cents, or nearly 1 percent, at $45.02  a barrel by 2:00 p.m. EDT.  Both benchmarks rallied nearly 3 percent in the previous session,  picking up momentum from a rebound late last week after WTI's  fall to April lows beneath $40 a barrel.  "The oil market remains in a battle between the trading community  which focuses in the shorter term data and information which has  been mostly bearish, versus the investment trading crowd which is  focused on the medium-to-longer term which is projected to be  bullish," said Dominick Chirichella, senior partner at the Energy  Management Institute in New York.  "Both WTI and Brent will have to move above the $50 per barrel  level and remain there for the shorter-term traders to regain  confidence that the market is embarking on a new up leg,"  Chirichella said.  The U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) is expected to  report on Wednesday a 1.0 million-barrel crude stockpile drawdown  for the week ended Aug. 5, after unexpected rises in two prior  weeks, analysts polled by Reuters said.  The American Petroleum Institute (API), a trade group, will issue  its own report on U.S. petroleum stockpiles after Tuesday's  market settlement, at 4:30 p.m. EDT."To make a significant difference, you need a net draw of 1 or 2  million barrels across the crude, gasoline and distillates  balances," said Phil Davis, trader at PSW Investments in Woodland  Park, New Jersey. "A headline draw of 1 million barrels in crude  means nothing to me."  "I think you'll see WTI going back below $40 in the next couple  of weeks and fall will likely be a terrible time for oil."   Many analysts and traders have warned of the glut in both crude  and refined oil products this summer, particularly pointing to  the lagging demand for U.S. gasoline demand despite the peak  season for driving in the United States. OPEC's biggest producers have also been  pumping near record high levels.  Aside from its scheduled data release on Wednesday, the EIA said  on Tuesday that 2016 U.S. crude production declines were expected  be around 700,000 barrels per day, smaller than previously  expected drop of 820,000 bpd.