  U.S. crude futures closed nearly 6 percent on Monday as weak economic  data from China, the world's largest energy consumer, reversed a  four-day rally from last week and an OPEC source undermined  chances of an emergency meeting to stem the decline.  China's manufacturing sector contracted at the fastest pace since  2012 in January, adding to worries about demand from the world's  second-biggest economy at a time when the market is already  weighed down by a large supply overhang.  "China is the last standing consumer of oil outside of the U.S..  The problem is that everyone is relying on them," said Carl  Larry, director of business development at Frost & Sullivan  in Houston.  "As long as we keep in this scenario where China is the only real  consumer to pick up the pace, we're going to see moves lower  every time China has an issue with their economy." Brent April  crude futures were down $1.79, or 4.9 percent, at $34.20 a barrel, and had dipped as low as $33.92. The  March Brent contract, which expired on Friday, settled at $34.74  a barrel.  U.S. West Texas  Intermediate settled down $2, or 5.95 percent, at  $31.62 a barrel. It hit a low of $31.29 earlier in the session.     A drop in all three major U.S. stock indexes after data showed  manufacturing activity was weak in January and consumer spending  was unchanged in December, also weighed on oil prices. Traders  have been watching the equity markets closely to get a reading of  the health of the economy.  A mild winter has also dented demand for oil and latest weather  forecasts calling for warm weather through mid-February sent U.S.  New York Harbor heating oil futures down 5 percent.  A senior OPEC source told a Saudi Arabian newspaper it was too  early to talk about an emergency meeting of the Organization of the Petroleum  Exporting Countries (OPEC).  Oil prices soared last week, with Brent crude surging over 30  percent from the 12-year low touched earlier in the month, after  Russian energy officials said they had received proposals from  OPEC lynchpin Saudi Arabia on managing output and were ready to  talk.  In a sign investors were speculating on an oil rebound, data from  the InterContinental Exchange showed net long positions in Brent  rose the most in four years last week.  But analysts raised doubts about the possibility of a coordinated  cutback on production, particularly as OPEC member Iran, which  last month was allowed to return fully to markets after years of  sanctions, is so far unwilling to participate in cuts.  Partly because of Iran's return, OPEC production has jumped to  32.60 million barrels per day (bpd), its highest in years, adding  to a global glut of over 1 million bpd in excess of demand, which  has pulled down oil prices 70 percent since mid-2014. Iraq, another OPEC member determined to ramp up production,  reported rising exports in January, reaching an average of 3.3  million barrels per day, up from 3.2 million bpd the previous  month.  However overall production from its southern fields fell last  month, slipping from a record high reached at the end of last  year.   "Seems like every time market participants say prices have  bottomed, they have been wrong," said Dominick Chirichella,  senior partner at Energy Management Institute in New York.  "There's nothing that says prices have bottomed — supply is still  greater than demand by a lot, Chinese demand may be slackening,  the global economy may be slackening and the likelihood of an  OPEC emergency meeting seems very low, as it did last week"BMI Research has cut its oil price outlook for Brent to a 2016  average of $40 per barrel from $42.50 previously, and said WTI  would average $39.50.    "Counteracting oil's upside momentum in 2016 will be the weakness  of the Chinese yuan, lingering concerns over global economic  growth and the well-stocked inventories of crude and fuels," BMI  said, adding that a gradual price rise was expected in the second  half of the year. 