  Oil prices rallied nearly 4 percent at their peak on Monday as the world's largest  producers gathered in Algeria to discuss ways to support the  market, with nervous trade driving volatility to its highest  since exporters met in April.  Skepticism about any deal being reached has prompted money  managers to cut their bullish bets to a one-month low last week,  when prices fell by nearly 5 percent, dented by signs Saudi  Arabia and Iran were making little progress in achieving a  preliminary agreement to freeze production.  Members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries are  meeting informally on the sidelines of the International Energy  Forum in Algeria from Sept. 26-28, where they will discuss a  possible deal to limit output.  Iran, which is still ramping up production to where it was in  2012, before the imposition of Western sanctions that lifted in  January, downplayed the chances of a deal, although several other  members of the group said they still hoped there would be some  agreement on how to tackle a global surplus of crude oil.Brent crude futures rose $1.25,  or 2.72 percent, to $47.14 a barrel by 2:38 p.m. ET,  having rallied from a session low of $45.74, while U.S. crude prices rose $1.26, or 2.83 percent, to $45.74 a barrel.  Implied volatility, one gauge of how much the oil price moves,  rose to its highest since April 18, when a meeting in Doha among  OPEC members to discuss an output freeze ended in an impasse and  the price hit a low just above $40 a barrel.  Unplanned outages across OPEC countries still amount to around 2  million barrels per day, according to SEB commodities strategist  Bjarne Schieldrop, which will make it difficult for members that  are pumping close to capacity to make way for the potential  return of that shuttered output.  "They will come away with nothing, because it is too difficult.  How can they decide a freeze when Libya is on the doorstep of  returning production, or Nigeria for that matter?" Schieldrop  said.   Data from the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission on Friday  showed hedge fund managers cut their net long position in crude  oil to its lowest in a month, having made the largest weekly  addition to their short positions on record.   Sources told Reuters on Friday that Saudi Arabia did not expect a decision to be made in Algeria, while Saudi Arabia had offered to reduce production if Iran caps its own output this year, an offer  to which Tehran had yet to respond."The fact countries like Algeria are still talking about a deal  means it's still on the table regardless of others' views about what  might be happening," said Jonathan Barratt, chief investment officer at  Sydney's Ayers Alliance."I expect Algeria and Venezuela to keep pushing for a deal — it's imperative for them to keep the price up," Barratt said.