  Oil prices rose 3 percent on Friday as a report showing weaker  U.S. jobs growth in August suppressed the dollar, but crude  futures remained on track for a big weekly loss on glut concerns.  U.S. employment growth eased more than expected last month after  two straight months of robust gains and wage gains moderated,  casting doubts the Federal Reserve Open Market Committee will  raise interest rates at its Sept. 20-21 meeting.  The dollar index  weakened after the jobs report, making oil and other  greenback-denominated commodities more affordable for holders of  the euro and other currencies.  The number of oil rigs operating in U.S. fields rose by 1 to a  total of 407, marking the ninth increase in 10 weeks following a  flat reading last week, according to a weekly count from energy services provider Baker Hughes. At this time last year, drillers were operating 662 oil rigs.  Global benchmark Brent crude futures were up $1.27, or 2.77 percent, at $46.72 a barrel but were  on course for a decline of more than 6 percent over the  week.  U.S. West Texas  Intermediate crude were up $1.28, or 2.97 percent, at  $44.44 a barrel, on track for a 7 percent weekly loss.  "With the FOMC likely to stay in September and the dollar  dictating where we could go, it's quite likely oil will hold at  mid-$40 levels," said Carl Larry Director, director of business  development for oil & gas at Frost & Sullivan.  "But more telling of how oil performs will be the rig count in  coming weeks and OPEC gestures to support prices."Oil rose earlier after Russian President Vladimir Putin told Bloomberg an agreement  between oil exporters to freeze output would be the right  decision to support the market. That report was published on the  same day Russian Energy Minister Alexander Novak played down the  potential for talks on a possible output freeze.  Those comments came amid growing skepticism among traders that  the Organization of  the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and other producers  including Russia will agree to freeze production at a meeting in  Algeria later this month.  However, lending credence to a freeze, Saudi Arabia, the world's  biggest crude exporter, has appeared to change its stance and is  likely to support production stabilization at the meeting.  On Friday, Saudi Arabia's Foreign Minister Adel al-Jubeir said  that he was optimistic about producers moving to a common  position on oil production.  "We are beginning to have a meeting of the minds but it is a work  in progress and we'll see what happens in the meeting in Algeria.  And I'm hopefully optimistic," he told reporters.  OPEC members will discuss a potential production cap again at an  informal Sept. 26-28 meeting in Algeria.   "The likeliest scenario is that there will be no freeze in  production growth whatsoever," said Hans van Cleef, senior oil  economist at ABN Amro.    It is more likely, he said, that participants will continue to  monitor the market and possibly postpone freeze talks to the  official OPEC meeting in Vienna on Nov. 30.     Additionally, more U.S. supply will return to the market as some  producers in eastern parts of the Gulf of Mexico restart offshore  operations as Hurricane Hermine made landfall in Florida and  weakened into a tropical storm.