  Oil prices hit 2016 highs on Thursday, with U.S. crude closing over $40, on optimism that  major producers will strike an output freeze deal next month amid  soaring gasoline demand in the United States.A weaker dollar after a Federal Reserve policy  decision on Wednesday that indicated two U.S. rate hikes this year instead of  four also drew oil buyers using currencies such as the euro.OPEC kingpin Saudi Arabia and non-OPEC producers led by Russia  will meet on April 17 in the Qatar capital Doha, increasing the  likelihood of the first global supply deal in 15 years."The remote possibility that a coordinated supply control effort  comes from this meeting, assuming it even happens, has put market bears  on the defensive," said Pete Donovan, broker with Liquidity Energy  in New York.  Oil prices have surged more than 50 percent from 12-year lows  since the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries floated the  idea of a production freeze, boosting Brent up from around $27 a barrel and  U.S. crude from around $26.On Thursday, the front-month in U.S. crude's West Texas  Intermediate (WTI) settled 4.5 percent higher, at $40.20 a barrel, posting its best close since Dec. 3,2015.  Brent crude's front-month rose $1.15 to $41.48,  after earlier reaching the year's peak of $41.60."For now, the market is staying well supported, and the dollar is providing additional support," said Olivier Jakob, oil analyst at Petromatrix. "It will be difficult to return to the lows of the  year."WTI also briefly traded at a premium to Brent on Thursday, the first time since January, as traders piled into the U.S.  crude market on bets of an uptick in domestic oil exports.  U.S. crude has gained further traction on smaller stockpile  builds of late, and surging gasoline consumption.U.S. crude inventories last week climbed to its fifth straight  week of record highs but by just 1.3 million barrels, a much smaller  build than forecast, government data showed. Gasoline demand rose 6.4  percent over the past four weeks from a year ago.