  U.S. crude oil prices closed higher on Friday after oilfield  services firm Baker Hughes released weekly data showing the U.S.  oil rig count fell for a seventh consecutive week.  The number of rigs in the nation's oilfields fell by 10 to a  total of 595 in the week ended Oct. 16. At this time last year,  oil and gas producers were operating 1,590 rigs.  The rig counts have seen the longest streak of weekly declines  since June, data showed Friday, a sign low prices continued to  keep drillers away from the well pad. Over the prior six weeks,  drillers had cut 70 rigs. Read MoreGOP hopefuls on climate  change: In a word, skeptical U.S. crude settled up 88 cents,  or 1.9 percent, at $47.26 a barrel. Brent's new front-month December contract traded up 70 cents at  $50.40 a barrel.  Crude oil prices had inched higher in choppy trade prior to the  report, as short covering fueled a small rally after four days of  sharp losses, though gains were limited as prices failed to break  through key technical levels.  Despite Friday's rise, U.S. crude and Brent were on track for  their steepest weekly loss in 10 weeks and eight weeks,  respectively, after the International Energy Agency predicted the  global market would remain oversupplied through 2016.  Earlier Friday, West Texas Intermediate futures rose more than a  dollar in technical trade after briefly rising over the 14-day  moving average, traders said. But, it was unable to maintain the  gains and returned to levels little changed from Thursday's  close.  Strong equity markets also supported earlier gains as European  shares reached a two-month high, buoyed by bullish Asian and U.S.  trading on positive U.S. economic data. Read MoreOil demand growth to  slow, IEA says, but is OPEC listening?  "Even if crude prices go up now, we could be seeing Iranian crude  coming back to the market, pushing it down again. I think  downward movement is more likely for the rest of this year," said  Daniel Ang, an investment analyst at Singapore-based Phillip  Futures.  A meeting of OPEC technical experts in Vienna on Oct. 21 may give  indications whether sentiment is shifting within the organization  about maintaining production levels as prices remain muted.  In the North Sea, the Buzzard oilfield, which plays a role in  pricing global crude exports, was shut after an operational  glitch.—CNBC's Tom DiChristopher contributed to this report.