  U.S. oil prices fell over 3 percent on Monday on concerns a six-week market recovery has gone beyond fundamentals, as U.S. crude stockpiles continue to mount and Iran maintains little interest in a global production freeze.Market intelligence firm Genscape reported an inventory build of 585,854 barrels in Cushing, Oklahoma, taking the delivery hub for  U.S. crude futures closer to capacity, traders who saw the data said.The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries said global demand for crude from its members, including Saudi Arabia, Iraq  and Iran, will be less than previously thought in 2016 due to  competing non-OPEC supply. OPEC supply will likely exceed demand by about  760,000 barrels per day, up from 720,000 bpd implied earlier, it said.   Russia said OPEC's meeting on a production freeze with other key  oil producers like itself will probably be held in Doha in next  month. It said Iran supports the plan, although Tehran was keen to restore  its crude exports first to pre-sanction levels.  Investment bank Morgan Stanley predicted a $25-$45 trading range  for U.S. crude in an oversupplied but volatile market, concurring  with several analysts' views."We feel that the bulk of this stronger than expected 5-6 week  price advance has been seen and that prices will be shifting into a  near term consolidation phase," said Jim Ritterbusch of Chicago energy consultancy Ritterbusch & Associates.U.S. crude settled at $37.18 a barrel, down $1.32, or 3.43 percent. It hit a three-month high of $39.02 on Friday,  surging from a 12-year low of $26.05 a month earlier.   Brent was down 73 cents, or 1.81 percent, at $39.66 barrel. The global crude benchmark fell to a 2003 low of $27.10 in late  January.Monday's price tumble came after last week's rally of 7 percent  in U.S. crude, which was up for a fourth straight week. Brent gained 4  percent last week, up for a third week in a row.  Some analysts expect a more bearish supply-demand picture when  the U.S. government issues weekly oil data on Wednesday. Last week's  report showed a crude build of nearly 4 million barrels to above 521  million barrels, the fourth straight week of growing to record highs."I think as we approach $40 for WTI and Brent, the market will  not like a net build of more than 2 million barrels this week," said Scott Shelton, energy broker at ICAP in Durham, North Carolina.Money managers, including hedge funds, raised their bullish bets  on U.S. crude for a third week in a row to November highs but cut  net long positions in Brent. Correction: A previous version of this story  misspelled Bijan Zanganeh in one reference.