  Oil prices were down more than 3 percent on Wednesday after the  U.S. government reported a crude build three times above analysts  expectations.  The increase marked the sixth straight week of record high  inventories, rekindling worries of a glut that threatened to  reverse a two-month long rally on the market.  The Energy Information Administration reported U.S. crude stocks  rose by 9.4 million barrels in the previous week to a record  total of 532.5 million barrels.   The U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) said crude  stockpiles rose 9.4 million barrels last week, not far from the  8.8 million build indicated by industry group American Petroleum  Institute on Tuesday but way off the 3.1 million barrels expected  by analysts in a Reuters poll.  "The data will do little to help oil bulls, given the monster  build for crude inventories already at record high levels prior  to this," said Chris Jarvis, analyst at Caprock Risk Management  in Frederick, Maryland. U.S. crude  futures settled $1.66 lower, or 4 percent, at $39.79 a barrel, recording its biggest daily loss since Feb. 11. Brent  crude was down $1.25 a barrel at $40.53.  Weaker U.S. equity markets, which have since the start of this  year traded in tandem with oil, also weighed on oil, along with a  stronger dollar that made commodities denominated in the  greenback less affordable to holders of currencies such as the  euro.  Crude prices had rallied about 50 percent over the past six  months from 12-year lows, lifting U.S. crude from around $26 and  Brent from around $27.  While some of the gains were related to declining U.S. oil  production and strong demand for gasoline this year, the bulk of  it was due to plans by OPEC and other major producers to freeze  production at January's high levels.  The EIA data was not entirely bearish, with gasoline stocks  falling 4.6 million barrels, compared with the 1.5 million-barrel  drop forecast. Demand for the motor fuel over the past four weeks  also soared 7 percent year-on-year.  Crude stockpiles at the Cushing, Oklahoma, delivery hub - an  important data point for the market - fell 1.3 million barrels,  declining for the first time in seven weeks.  But overall focus remained on total crude stockpiles which hit  record highs for a sixth straight week at 532.5 million barrels.  "The rally, in our opinion, has run its course for now and  opportunities lay ahead for weakness especially in the spread  market," said Tariq Zahir, trader and fund manager at Tyche  Capital Advisors in New York.  Oil prices had rebounded on supply disruptions from Nigeria and  Iraq and on discussions over a proposed output freeze by members  and non-members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting  Countries.  The possible deal to stabilize production was snubbed as  "meaningless" by the head of the International Energy Agency's  oil industry and markets division, Neil Atkinson, on  Wednesday.   "Amongst the group of countries (potentially participating) that  we're aware of, only Saudi Arabia has any ability to increase its  production," Atkinson said. "So a freeze on production is perhaps  rather meaningless. It's more some kind of gesture which perhaps  is aimed ... to build confidence that there will be stability in  oil prices."   Qatar has invited all 13 OPEC members to Doha on April 17 for  another round of talks to widen the production deal.   Libya and Iran have snubbed the initiative, arguing that they  will need to boost their crude output further before considering  joining any caps on production.   Traders such as Vitol, Gunvor and Glencore are betting on oil  markets remaining oversupplied for at least two more years.   Traders are looking to extend or lock in new leases on storage  tanks for crude and refined products in key hubs as far out as  the end of 2018, sources at storage firms and trading houses  say. 