  Oil prices recovered on Tuesday from six-week lows, with U.S.  crude rising as much as 1 percent, as the market weighed up OPEC  comments that a possible production freeze agreement could last  longer than expected. U.S. gasoline  futures tumbled 4 percent after Colonial Pipeline said  it expects to restart its main 1.3 million barrel per day  gasoline line on Wednesday after being shut for more than a week to fix the  biggest leak in nearly two decades.  The news encouraged traders to sell gasoline and buy back crude  as fears of fuel shortages eased, Again Capital founding partner  John Kilduff said. U.S. West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude  futures rose 14 cents to $43.44 a barrel by 2:40 p.m. ET after falling to a nearly 6-week low of $42.55  earlier in the session.  The pending expiry after Tuesday's settlement of WTI's October  delivery contract, the front-month for the U.S. crude benchmark,  had also weighed in New York's morning trade.  International benchmark Brent crude oil futures were trading down 21  cents at $45.74 per barrel, after dropping to $45.09, its weakest  level since Aug. 11.  Oil prices initially fell on pessimism that the Organization of the Petroleum  Exporting Countries and other major crude producers will  reach an output freeze deal at Sept. 26-28 informal talks in  Algeria. Saudi Arabia, Iran, Iraq, Nigeria and Libya, five of  OPEC's largest oil exporters, have all raised or been trying to  hike output in recent months even while talking of a freeze.  Official data released late on Monday confirmed a rise in Saudi  Arabian oil exports in July to 7.622 million bpd, up from 7.456  million bpd in June.  "(An output freeze) would only secure an even higher push of  Saudi crude oil and would be a case where the proposed cure is  worse than the disease," said Olivier Jakob, managing director of  PetroMatrix in Switzerland.  But around midday, short-covering and fresh buying emerged from  those fearing of a rally should OPEC announce a deal in Algeria.  OPEC Secretary-General Mohammed Barkindo said he expected the  potential freeze deal between OPEC and other producers to freeze  output to last one year, longer than previously thought.  Kilduff said traders also responded to a comment from Algerian  Energy Minister Noureddine Bouterfa on Tuesday that OPEC members  could decide to hold an extraordinary meeting to discuss oil  prices immediately after an informal gathering in Algiers next  week.  Bouterfa told local radio he was optimistic that participants  would reach a consensus on how to stabilize the oil markets at  the Algiers meeting of OPEC and non-OPEC producers on Sept.  26-28.  "It seems there are more barrels than ever coming to the market  because of OPEC and there should be no fundamental reason for  prices to go up," said Scott Shelton, broker with ICAP in Durham,  North Carolina.  "Yet, we are seeing buying on the dips as people worry about any  OPEC reduction in the near future. Also, we have very little risk  premium in the market now for any severe outage among these  producers."  Worries that U.S. oil stockpiles may have risen last week,  however, limited gains in crude futures.  U.S. crude stockpiles likely rose 2.3 million barrels last week,  analysts forecast in a Reuters poll. The American Petroleum  Institute (API), a trade group, will release its weekly crude  inventory report at 4:30 p.m. EDT (2030 GMT), before official  stockpiles data on Wednesday from the U.S. Energy Information  Administration (EIA).  — CNBC's Tom DiChristopher contributed to this  story.