  U.S. oil prices fell on Thursday, as refinery maintenance threatened to raise  record inventories of crude and sources said an OPEC meeting on production  levels was unlikely without Iran's participation.  An initial rally in the dollar after the European Central  Bank cut its key lending rate to zero also pressured oil,  although crude prices recovered from their lows as the euro rebounded on ECB comments that more cuts were unlikely. Brent crude  futures were down $1.02 at $40.05 a barrel, having earlier this week peaked at $41.48, the  highest level since Dec. 9.  U.S. crude settled at $37.84 a barrel, down 45 cents, or 1.18 percent, having hit $38.51 on Tuesday, also  its highest since Dec. 9.   On Wednesday, oil rallied as much as 5 percent, with U.S. crude  hitting three-month highs of $38.51 a barrel as a big gasoline  inventory drawdown overshadowed record high crude  stockpiles.  But some analysts said last week's gasoline stock  build, which was triple expectations, could be partly due to the  market transitioning from winter-grade to summer-grade motor  fuel. They also said the U.S. refinery maintenance season could  push crude stockpiles to even bigger highs.  Global demand for crude oil typically dips when refineries around  the world enter seasonal maintenance in spring, ahead of peak  summer demand.   Some analysts fear that despite the big U.S. draw, gasoline  stocks remained high on both sides of the Atlantic, which could  undercut a sustained recovery in oil prices. Crude's 30 percent  rise in the last month was partly based on hopes that drivers  would soak up the surfeit in the fuel.  "The gasoline drawdown is great but we still have record high  crude stocks. The question is whether we are just going to depend  on falling U.S. production to bring that down, or OPEC will also  get its act together on an output freeze," said David Thompson at  Washington-based commodities brokerage Powerhouse.  Traders were also focused on a potential agreement to rein in output between  producers from the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, led by  Saudi Arabia, and non-OPEC exporters including  Russia.   A meeting to discuss a global pact on  freezing production is unlikely to take place in Russia on March  20, sources familiar with the matter say, as OPEC member Iran is  yet to say whether it would participate in such a deal.  "The idea that meeting may not happen at all is definitely  weighing on the market," said Tariq Zahir, who mostly trades in  U.S. crude oil spreads at Tyche Capital Advisors in New York.  Most analysts expect the oil glut to last into 2017 or even 2018,  resulting in low prices.   Only by 2020 is there a consensus for prices to rise towards $70  a barrel, based on low investment in production.   The European Central Bank cut all three of its interest rates and  expanded its asset-buying program on Thursday, delivering a  bigger-than-expected cocktail of actions to boost the economy and  stop ultra low inflation becoming entrenched.  Surprising markets, it cut its main refinancing rate to zero from  0.05 percent.