  U.S. crude closed slightly lower on Monday after rising as much as 1 percent on Saudi Arabia's pledge to work on price stability offset  some worries about the global oil market glut.A rally in gasoline and ultralow sulfur diesel (ULSD) futures  also bolstered the petroleum complex. Traders bought those refined  products amid strong demand for gasoline at pumps and the onset of colder weather in Northeastern United States, which should boost demand  for heating oil, or ULSD.Earlier in the session, a broader commodities selloff led by  copper and firmer dollar had weighed on oil.  Saudi Arabia said in a statement it was ready to work with other  oil producing and exporting countries to stabilize prices.The Saudi remarks came as oil prices barely held above  2-1/2-month lows, and were greeted with a mix of enthusiasm and skepticism.  Despite similar pledges in the past, the Saudis and other big OPEC  producers have kept output high to maintain market share, and crude prices  have dropped 50 percent over the past year.OPEC's next meeting to set production targets is on Dec. 4.  Benchmark Brent futures were up 19 cents, or 0.43 percent, at $44.85 a barrel. It rose more than $1 on the  Saudi statement, then surrendered those gains to trade $1 lower before rebounding.U.S. crude's West Texas Intermediate (WTI) futures settled 15 cents lower, or 0.36 percent, to $41.75 a barrel.  "The Saudis' past promises on working for price stability has led  to nothing, so it wasn't surprising there was as much disbelief as  initial excitement over today's announcement," said John Kilduff, partner  at New York energy hedge fund Again Capital. "But all said, they are  the biggest movers in OPEC, so their statement is having a positive impact." Gasoline futures jumped nearly 3 percent,  the most in nearly three weeks. ULSD rose almost 2 percent.Some remained unconvinced the rebound in oil would last, pointing  to the widening discount in nearby WTI versus farther-dated  contracts."The dramatic expansion in the WTI carrying charges since early  last month will remain as a major bearish portent that will be keeping  alive a test of the late August WTI lows," said Jim Ritterbusch of Chicago-based oil consultancy Ritterbusch & Associates.WTI's front-month fell to $38.99 a barrel on Friday, trading  barely above its Aug. 27 low of $37.75.Hedge funds and other big speculators have cut bullish wagers on  WTI to the lowest since August.