  Oil prices rose on Friday from early losses, with traders  citing potentially more bullish investor positioning for the  second half of the year and after a weaker dollar that boosted  most commodities.  The market also found some support after falling more than 3  percent on Thursday as traders booked profits at the end of the  best quarter in seven years. Crude prices had jumped 25 percent  over the past three months.Also on Friday, oilfield services firm Baker Hughes reported the number of rigs operating in the United States rose by 11 to a total of 341, marking the fourth increase in five weeks. At this time last year drillers were operating 640 rigs.  Volumes in key Brent and U.S. crude futures were significant for  New York's morning trade despite the hesitation typically common  before a long weekend. U.S. financial and commodity markets will  be closed on Monday for the Independence Day holiday.  Global benchmark Brent crude futures were up 68 cents at $50.40 a barrel. U.S. West Texas  Intermediate (WTI) crude settled 1.37 percent higher, or 66 cents, at $48.99 a barrel and posted a quarterly gain of 28 percent.  The rebound came as the dollar index fell 0.5 percent, making  commodities denominated in the greenback more affordable for  holders of the euro and other currencies.  For the week, Brent was on track to a gain of nearly 3 percent,  helped largely by a return of fund buying in oil this week as  financial markets moved on from the liquidation sparked by  Britain's exit vote from the European Union. WTI was up nearly 1.6 percent for the  week.  "There is some pre-holiday market positioning for the second half  that's going on," said David Thompson, executive vice-president  at Washington-based commodities-focused broker Powerhouse.  "People are also moving on from Brexit, accepting they have to  deal with an 'organized divorce' with Britain."  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission will also issue weekly  data at around 3:30 p.m. (1930 GMT) on positions held by  speculators, including hedge funds, in oil.  Hedge fund positions in oil have been bullish lately, with bets  for higher prices rising last week before the market's plunge on  the Brexit vote.  U.S. Energy Secretary Ernest Moniz said he expected oil supply  and demand to balance by 2017.  Even so, some analysts remain pessimistic of significant price  gains in the second half.  Analysts at Barclays, for instance, cut their price forecasts by  $3 a barrel each, forecasting Brent at $44 and WTI at $43 for the  remainder of 2016.  "Markets have experienced only the tip of the iceberg in terms of  the impact of the UK's 'leave' vote," Barclays analysts said in a  note.