  Energy firms pulled another 13 rigs from U.S. oil fields this  week, the biggest drop in four weeks, data showed on Friday,  showing that a near six-month slump in activity had yet to run  its course despite a rebound in crude oil prices.  That was the 25th straight weekly decline, bringing the total rig  count down to 646, the lowest since August 2010, oil services  company Baker Hughes Inc said in its closely followed report.  However, in the Eagle Ford basin in South Texas, the nation's  second biggest shale oil field, drillers added one oil rig in the  third weekly increase in a row, bringing the total up to 90. U.S. crude, also known as West  Texas Intermediate or WTI, closed up $2.62, or 4.54 percent, at $60.30 a  barrel. July Brent, meanwhile, was up  $3, or 4.8 percent, at $65.53.  The market has been eyeing the U.S. rig count and the increases  of a few rigs in some basins over the past few weeks ahead of  next week's meeting of the Organization of the Petroleum  Exporting Countries, which is to decide on crude production  levels of its 12 members. OPEC is widely expected to keep its  output levels unchanged to defend market share.  The Permian basin in western Texas and eastern New Mexico, the  biggest and fastest growing U.S. shale oil play, meanwhile, lost  one oil rig to 231, the lowest since at least 2011, according to  Baker Hughes data going back to 2011. At least three other shale  formations also lost one rig each this week. Read More US oil production at  43-year high as OPEC prepares to meet  Since the number of oil rigs peaked at 1,609 in October, U.S.  drillers have slashed spending, eliminated thousands of jobs and  idled more than half of the country's active rigs as U.S. crude  futures collapsed 60 percent from over $107 a barrel last June to  a six-year low near $42 in March.  Since then, however, U.S. energy companies have started to return  to the well pad as prices rebounded around 40 percent to over $60  earlier in May. Prices so far this week have averaged about $58 a  barrel.  Drillers including Pioneer Natural Resources and EOG Resources  have said in recent weeks they are preparing to step up drilling  activity, citing the price rebound Goldman Sachs this week,  however, warned an increase in U.S. oil production could send  prices spiraling back down to $45 a barrel later this year.  Last week, U.S. crude production jumped to 9.6 million barrels a  day (bpd) from 9.3 million bpd in the prior week, its highest  level since the early 1970s, according to government data.  Goldman forecast the crude market will remain oversupplied  through 2016 with U.S. producers set to increase drilling again  and Saudi Arabia, Iraq and Russia on track to grow production  sharply. Read MoreOil is back on the rise, and traders  try to predict a ceiling  "The longer this price decline takes to materialize, the greater  the price downside given our already projected high inventories into  2016, especially in the United States," Goldman said in the report.