  Oil's near week-long rally was under pressure on Wednesday after  an unexpected drawdown in U.S. crude and gasoline stocks was  offset by worries that Saudi Arabia was cranking output to record  highs even as OPEC talked of ways to ease a global glut.  U.S. West Texas  Intermediate crude futures settled at $46.79 a barrel,  up 0.45 percent on the day or about 21 cents. Brent  crude futures rebounded from mid-day losses to trade 55  cents higher at $49.78 a barrel.  Oil rallied about 11 percent over the past four sessions since  Saudi Arabia, the kingpin in the Organization of the Petroleum  Exporting Countries, stoked speculation the group was ready to  reach an output freeze agreement with non-OPEC producers.  The markets briefly extended gains after the U.S. Energy  Information Administration (EIA) said domestic crude inventories  fell 2.5 million barrels last week, surprising analysts who had  expected a build of 522,000 barrels.  Gasoline stockpiles also fell 2.7 million barrels, more than  expectations for a 1.6 million-barrel drop, the EIA data showed.The rally soon faded as the market focused more on a Reuters  report that said Saudi Arabia could boost crude output in August to  10.8-10.9 million bpd, overtaking Russia's production, even as  OPEC aims for a pact to curb global output.  The Saudis told OPEC they pumped 10.67 million bpd in July,  versus their previous record of 10.56 million in June 2015.  Saudi-based industry sources said earlier in the year they  expected the kingdom's output to edge near record highs to meet  summer demand for power. But they said it was unlikely that Saudi  output will flood the market.  "One certain thing to be aware of is the Reuters report that  Saudis may increase production to new record highs pushing near  11 million barrels per day," said Tariq Zahir, trader in crude  oil spreads at Tyche Capital Advisors in New York.  "With the U.S. rig count coming back online for several weeks,  even if a freeze did happen we would be talking about freezing at  higher levels of output," Zahir said.Before last week's drawdown, U.S. crude stockpiles had risen  unexpectedly in the previous three weeks. On top of that, the  U.S. oil drilling rig count has risen without pause for seven  weeks, signaling more production ahead.  The fight for market share among some OPEC producers has made  market watchers doubtful that talks to rein in oversupply by  freezing output levels would be successful.Earlier reports of refinery outages in the United States, including a crude unit at Exxon Mobil's 502,500 bpd plant at Baton Rouge in Louisiana, added to the market's downside. The company had put on hold a contingency plan to shut its Baton Rouge, Louisiana refinery  after it managed to start a liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) processing unit  in the adjoining chemical plant, sources familiar with plant operations  said.   An Exxon spokesman declined to comment.  "Contrary to some reports, the ExxonMobil Baton Rouge Complex is operating," company spokesman Todd Spitler said in an email. "It  is our practice not to comment on specific unit operations at our  facilities. We do expect to meet contractual commitments."  — CNBC's Tom DiChristopher and Jackie DeAngelis  contributed to this story.