US PPA platform moves into Europe 
04102019

1351
RenewableLevelTen Energy's online marketplace aims to streamline renewable energy corporate power 
US renewable energy procurement platform LevelTen Energy has expanded into Europe with the aim of streamlining corporate power purchase agreements.
 
The online platform launched in North America in early 2018 now includes projects in the UK, Ireland, France, Spain, Netherlands, Germany and Italy.
 
It offers advanced analytics, standard documentation and processes best practices to both buyers and sellers of renewable energy.
 
LevelTen said it aims to provide customers with accurate, comprehensive information about every renewable energy asset under development.
 
The platform constantly updates information about development status, offer pricing and daily benchmarking of value and risk metrics, the company said.
 
LevelTen also provides end-to-end procurement services to help corporate buyers research, procure and monitor renewable energy investments from start to finish.
 
LevelTen Energy founder and chief executive Bryce Smith said: "We're committed to making the global renewable energy market more accessible, transparent, and efficient.
 
"By opening our Marketplace to European developers and buyers, we're following through on our mission to expand renewable markets by dramatically improving the transactions."
Source: renews.biz
 US renewable energy procurement platform LevelTen Energy has expanded into Europe with the aim of streamlining corporate power purchase agreements. The online platform launched in North America in early 2018 now includes projects in the UK, Ireland, France, Spain, Netherlands, Germany and Italy. It offers advanced analytics, standard documentation and processes best practices to both buyers and sellers of renewable energy. LevelTen said it aims to provide customers with accurate, comprehensive information about every renewable energy asset under development. The platform constantly updates information about development status, offer pricing and daily benchmarking of value and risk metrics, the company said. LevelTen also provides end-to-end procurement services to help corporate buyers research, procure and monitor renewable energy investments from start to finish. LevelTen Energy founder and chief executive Bryce Smith said: "We're committed to making the global renewable energy market more accessible, transparent, and efficient. "By opening our Marketplace to European developers and buyers, we're following through on our mission to expand renewable markets by dramatically improving the transactions."
Source: renews.biz