  Should stocks rally after the presidential election, the U.S. may see  enough gains to become one of the best-performing developed  markets in the world.   All major U.S. indexes closed higher Monday on the back  of FBI Director James Comey's announcement that Democratic  nominee Hillary Clinton would not face criminal charges after a probe into new emails. An NBC News/Survey Monkey poll  released Monday morning found Clinton with a 6-point lead over Republican Donald Trump.  Year to date, the U.S. is a laggard by international MSCI market  index measurements; the MSCI U.S. index is up 1.9 percent year to  date, far behind those of Canada, New Zealand, the U.K. and Hong  Kong, which have rallied 11.2 percent, 9.5 percent, 7.1 percent  and 6.7 percent, respectively.  Markets in some of the best international performers, including  Canada, New Zealand and Australia, have gained on the back of  commodities' stabilization, but those rallies could soon end,  according to strategist Gina Sanchez, CEO of Chantico Global, as OPEC fails  to address the oil supply glut.   "The U.S., on the other hand, really looks poised to rally on the  back of a Clinton victory," Sanchez said Monday on CNBC's  "Trading Nation."    "We have seen the markets price in the next Fed hike pretty well;  I think we could get past that pretty easily, and we're seeing  earnings continue to show some improvement. And all of those  things could actually stack up against that bear story I just  told you, to bring the U.S. back to the top," Sanchez said,  referring to comments she made about issues facing markets abroad  in the face of an oil glut.  The Dow,  and Nasdaq all rose Monday, seeing their best performances since March,  breaking losing streaks of seven trading days for the Dow and nine for both the S&P and Nasdaq.   The MSCI U.S. index, broadly measuring U.S. stock performance,  has paled in comparison to that of Hong Kong's, which is up 6.7 since the  beginning of the year. And the Hang Seng index, which measures  large-cap stocks in the territory, could benefit even more so than  the U.S. should stocks rally out of the election, according to  Rich Ross, head of technical analysis at Evercore ISI.   That's because, according to Ross, the strength of the U.S.  economy "is almost a double-edged sword by virtue of the fact  that if we get this sort of global risk-on rally, if you will,  that some of these more highly concentrated markets might stand  to benefit more on a percentage basis," Ross said Monday on  "Trading Nation."   Ross said the Hang Seng, relatively dominated by large-cap  stocks like HSBC and Chinese holding company Tencent, might be  one market to see even more gains than the S&P 500 in the  case of such a global rally because of the concentration of its  constituents. 