  Stocks closed higher on Monday, led by energy, following the  second presidential debate while investors digested a rise in oil  prices.  "It's a quiet day," said Craig Sterling, head of U.S. equity  research at Pioneer Investments. "Putin came out earlier and was  more constructive on energy and that was it." "I don't expect a  lot more until we get more macro news," he said.  The Dow Jones industrial average rose about 88 points, with  Apple and Boeing contributing the most gains, after gaining 159.47 points at session highs.  "You have more clarity from the U.S. election, with the  uncertainty from that heading lower; you've got less uncertainty  from OPEC, and that's bullish for stocks," said Adam Sarhan, CEO  of Sarhan Capital.  The S&P 500 gained about 0.5 percent, with energy rising about 1.5  percent.    "A breakout appears likely from a short-term momentum standpoint,  and we highlight shifts on the macro front that are indicative of  risk-on positioning," said Katie Stockton, chief technical  strategist at BTIG. "Consecutive daily closes above the 50-day  moving average near 2158 would mark a breakout and set the stage  for new all-time highs, with only minor resistance at the August  high near 2194."  The Nasdaq composite advanced approximately 0.7 percent, with  Apple and the iShares Nasdaq Biotechnology ETF (IBB)  gaining more than 1 percent. The Nasdaq 100, meanwhile, hit a new all-time intraday high of 4,904.72.  "Overall, there was a lot of negativity surrounding biotechs. We  got some positive data from some of the small and midcap  companies and that's boosting the [IBB]," said Mike Bailey,  director of research at FBB Capital Partners.  "I think we're still sort of in between catalysts," he said. "I  think the market is up today on  a lack of negative  catalysts and some soft, positive catalysts." Bailey added the  next major catalyst for stocks will be earnings season, which is  set to begin this week. U.S.  crude rose 3.1 percent to settle at $51.35 per barrel  while Brent  futures hit a one-year  high after Russian President Vladimir  Putin said Russia is ready to join a proposed cap on oil  output by OPEC members.  Putin, speaking at an energy congress in the Turkish city of  Istanbul, said he hoped that OPEC members would confirm the  decision to adopt quotas for output when the organization meets  in November.  "This has removed the uncertainty and now we are in clear," said  Naeem Aslam, chief market analyst at Think Markets, in a morning  note. "However, it is important to keep in mind that unless  we see the planned action complete, caution may be the best  practice. If history tells us anything, it is this that these  major oil players also have habit to not to respect the agreed  agreement."  Investors were also keeping an eye on the U.S. presidential  election. Donald Trump and Hillary  Clinton squared off in a town hall-style debate Sunday  night in St. Louis. Trump, in particular, largely stuck to  personal attacks, threatening at one point that he would "get a  special prosecutor" to look into Clinton's handling of  classified information if he were elected president.  "I would have to agree that the market is taking at [a tie],"  said Peter Cardillo, chief market economist at First Standard  Financial. "If the market had thought that Trump had gotten a  positive gain, we wouldn't be higher."  U.S. stock futures traded higher before the opening bell,  with Dow futures rising more than 100 points, while S&P  and Nasdaq futures gained 11.75 points and 24.25 points,  respectively. Still, Cardillo said trading volume was likely to  be light on Monday, given the Columbus Day holiday during which  U.S. banks were closed.  The Mexican peso shot about 2 percent higher  against the dollar on Monday. The dollar-Mexican peso trade  has been a proxy trade during the election, given Trump's desire  to build a wall along the Mexican border and call to go as far as  withdrawing the U.S. from NAFTA if he were elected.  Trump "had a better evening compared to his previous showdown  with the former Secretary of State, yet all polls currently  suggest that the Democrat will be the one to pack her bags for  the White House," said Jeremy Klein, chief market strategist at  FBN Securities.  Trump's campaign has been under fire recently, after a leaked  2005 video of the GOP standard bearer's vulgar remarks about  women caused uproar. US dollar/Mexican peso in 2016Source: FactSet  In economic news, there are no major data due Monday. The U.S.  bonds market was also closed due to the Columbus Day holiday.  The dollar rose 0.31 percent against a basket of currencies, with the euro near  $1.114 and the  around  103.6. Currency traders also kept an eye on the British pound,  following its "flash crash" against the dollar last week. The  pound traded 0.6 percent lower against the dollar, near $1.236.  Overseas, European equities rose after receiving a boost from  crude prices. The pan-European Stoxx  600 index gained 0.69 percent. In Asia, stocks closed  mixed. In corporate  news, Mylan agreed to  pay $465 million to settle charges that it overcharged the  government for its EpiPen products. Meanwhile, Twitter shares  fell more than 11.5 percent after Bloomberg reported the company  was unlikely to be bought out by another company.  The Dow Jones industrial  average rose 88.55 points, or 0.49 percent,  to close at 18,329.04, with ExxonMobil leading advancers and Procter & Gamble leading  decliners.  The  rose 9.92 points, or 0.46 percent, to end at 2,163.66, with energy leading all sectors higher.  The Nasdaq closed 36.27 points higher , or 0.69 percent, at 5,328.67.  About three stocks advanced for every decliner at the New York  Stock Exchange, with an exchange volume of 669.28 million and a  composite volume of 2.817 billion at the close.  The CBOE Volatility Index  (VIX), widely considered the best gauge of fear in  the market, traded near 13.4.Gold futures for December delivery rose $8.50 to settle at $1,260.40 per ounce.—Reuters contributed to this report. On tap this week: Monday  Bond market closed for Columbus Day  10 p.m.: Chicago Fed President Charles Evans speaks on the  economy and monetary policy Tuesday  Earnings: Alcoa, Fastenal  6 a.m.: NFIB survey  11 a.m.: Minneapolis Fed President Neel Kashkari Wednesday  Earnings: CSX  8 a.m.: New York Fed President Bill Dudley speaks with the  Business Council of New York State  9:40 a.m.: Kansas City Fed President Esther George speaks at the  Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago Annual Payments Symposium  10 a.m.: JOLTS  2 p.m.: Fed minutes Thursday  Earnings: Taiwan Semiconductor, Unilever, First Republic Bank,  Sky, Marriott Vacations, Winnebago  8:30 a.m.: Jobless claims  8:30 a.m.: Import prices  12:15 p.m.: Philadelphia Fed President Patrick Harker speaks on  the economic outlook  2 p.m.: Federal budget  9 p.m.: Minneapolis Fed President Neel Kashkari speaks at a town  hall on "Ending too big to fail," the role of the Federal Reserve  and other topics Friday  Earnings: Citigroup, JPMorgan Chase, Wells Fargo, PNC Financial  Services, Infosys, Commerce Bancshares  8:30 a.m.: Retail sales  8:30 a.m.: PPI  10 a.m.: Consumer sentiment  10 a.m.: Business inventories  1:30 p.m.: Fed Chair Janet Yellen speaks on "Macroeconomic  research after the crisis"  9 p.m.: Minneapolis Fed President Neel Kashkari speaks at a town  hall on "Ending too big to fail," the role of the Federal Reserve  and other topics *Planner subject to change. All times Eastern. 