Vattenfall to provide climate-smart energy in France 
02102018

0848
RenewableSwedish Vattenfall will offer retail customers climate-smart energy with the goal of helping reduce dependency on fossil fuels starting from Monday, Oct. 1, the company announced Monday.The company will launch climate smart solutions including electricity and gas supply services at competitive prices.
 
According to the announcement, since 2000 the firm has operated in France and supplies more than 4,000 business customers with portfolio solutions and renewable energy.
 
Vattenfall already offers renewable energy with a Guarantee of Origin (GoO) to French business customers.
 
A GoO is an electronic document which has the sole function of providing proof to a final customer that a given share or quantity of energy was produced from renewable sources.
 
Earlier this year, the company also announced its participation in a tender for offshore wind outside Dunkirk.
 
Magnus Hall, Vattenfall's president and CEO, declared France an interesting market and said that Vattenfall's ambitions in the country are in line with the company's smart, digitalized and fossil-free strategy.
Source: aa.com.tr
The company will launch climate smart solutions including electricity and gas supply services at competitive prices. According to the announcement, since 2000 the firm has operated in France and supplies more than 4,000 business customers with portfolio solutions and renewable energy. Vattenfall already offers renewable energy with a Guarantee of Origin (GoO) to French business customers. A GoO is an electronic document which has the sole function of providing proof to a final customer that a given share or quantity of energy was produced from renewable sources. Earlier this year, the company also announced its participation in a tender for offshore wind outside Dunkirk. Magnus Hall, Vattenfall's president and CEO, declared France an interesting market and said that Vattenfall's ambitions in the country are in line with the company's smart, digitalized and fossil-free strategy.Source: aa.com.tr