Vattenfall takes FID for 605-MW Kriegers Flak offshore wind project 
20122018

1538
RenewableSwedish state-owned utility Vattenfall AB today said it has taken the final investment decision (FID) to build the 604.8-MW Kriegers Flak offshore wind farm in Danish waters.The 72-turbine park in the Baltic Sea will be Denmark's largest offshore wind complex, once completed. It is planned to be fully commissioned by the end of 2021. About one-fifth of Kriegers Flak's production will be sold to Danish pharmaceutical group Novo Nordisk AS and industrial enzymes producer Novozymes A/S under a long-term power purchase agreement (PPA) signed this summer.
 
"The investment in Kriegers Flak will significantly increase Vattenfall's offshore capacity and is a cornerstone in our ambition to enable fossil-free living within one generation - as well as a major step in Denmark's green transition," says Magnus Hall, CEO of Vattenfall.
 
Meanwhile, Vattenfall said it would wait for the result of an appeal process at the Danish Energy Board of Appeals before taking the final investment decision for the two coastal wind projects at Vesterhav Syd and at Vesterhav Nord, off Denmark, totalling 344.4 MW. The appeal process is expected to be completed by the end of this year.
 
Construction of the two wind farms, requiring a combined investment of EUR 1.7 billion (USD 1.9bn), is subject to approval by the Danish authorities. The plants, to be located off the west coast of Denmark, are slated to begin operations by end-2020.
 
Source: www.renewablesnow.com
The 72-turbine park in the Baltic Sea will be Denmark's largest offshore wind complex, once completed. It is planned to be fully commissioned by the end of 2021. About one-fifth of Kriegers Flak's production will be sold to Danish pharmaceutical group Novo Nordisk AS and industrial enzymes producer Novozymes A/S under a long-term power purchase agreement (PPA) signed this summer. "The investment in Kriegers Flak will significantly increase Vattenfall's offshore capacity and is a cornerstone in our ambition to enable fossil-free living within one generation - as well as a major step in Denmark's green transition," says Magnus Hall, CEO of Vattenfall. Meanwhile, Vattenfall said it would wait for the result of an appeal process at the Danish Energy Board of Appeals before taking the final investment decision for the two coastal wind projects at Vesterhav Syd and at Vesterhav Nord, off Denmark, totalling 344.4 MW. The appeal process is expected to be completed by the end of this year. Construction of the two wind farms, requiring a combined investment of EUR 1.7 billion (USD 1.9bn), is subject to approval by the Danish authorities. The plants, to be located off the west coast of Denmark, are slated to begin operations by end-2020. 