Vattenfall aims to expand its solar portfolio 
19032018

1128
SolarVattenfall plans to invest around EUR100 million in large-scale solar energy over the next two years as it aims to become fossil fuel-free.The major utility company affirms that it is rising its allocated funding for solar energy to satisfy its customers' increased interest in the technology and because solar energy will match its present wind energy portfolio.
 
It also said that it will focus on two primary sectors for investment: utility-scale solar farms and implementing decentralized solutions for residential and business customers. The latter strategy will result in the creation of new energy services for customers that want to become prosumers (i.e., a generator and consumer of energy).
 
In the large-scale solar sector, Vattenfall said it will look for the possibility of using sites where existing infrastructure can be used to help cut expenses. Vattenfall has already commenced operating a 5 MW solar park at the Parc Cynog wind farm in Wales. It has also applied for approvals for other solar farms at wind farm sites.
 
Vattenfall recently decided to invest in the development of three solar farms in the Netherlands with an overall 10.5 MW of capacity. It is also expecting further solar energy investments in the Netherlands, including the 40 MW facility at Haringvliet.
The major utility company affirms that it is rising its allocated funding for solar energy to satisfy its customers' increased interest in the technology and because solar energy will match its present wind energy portfolio. It also said that it will focus on two primary sectors for investment: utility-scale solar farms and implementing decentralized solutions for residential and business customers. The latter strategy will result in the creation of new energy services for customers that want to become prosumers (i.e., a generator and consumer of energy). In the large-scale solar sector, Vattenfall said it will look for the possibility of using sites where existing infrastructure can be used to help cut expenses. Vattenfall has already commenced operating a 5 MW solar park at the Parc Cynog wind farm in Wales. It has also applied for approvals for other solar farms at wind farm sites. Vattenfall recently decided to invest in the development of three solar farms in the Netherlands with an overall 10.5 MW of capacity. It is also expecting further solar energy investments in the Netherlands, including the 40 MW facility at Haringvliet.