Vestas' 2018 order intake hits 10 GW mark 
30112018

0937
WindVestas received an order for 100 V120-2.2 MW turbines for a project in the U.S., taking the company's order intake in 2018 across the 10-gigawatt (GW) mark before entering December, the Danish wind giant announced Thursday.The new U.S. order includes supply and commissioning of the turbines with deliveries expected to begin in the third quarter of 2019 and commissioning scheduled for the fourth quarter, according to a statement from the company.
 
"The project and customer are undisclosed as per the customer's request," Vestas said.
 
On Wednesday, the company had confirmed receipt of an order from PacifiCorp, a subsidiary of Berkshire Hathaway Energy, for 47 V110-2.0 MW turbines, delivered in 2.2 MW Power Optimized Mode, to repower the Goodnoe Hills wind project in the U.S. state of Washington.
 
The order includes supply and commissioning of the turbines as well as a long-term service agreement, designed to ensure optimized performance of the project, Vestas said. Turbine delivery will begin in the first quarter of 2019, it added.
 
Wednesday's order follows PacifiCorp's 234 MW order with Vestas to repower the Marengo I and II projects, also located in Washington.
 
According to the press release, Vestas has received orders across six continents so far in the year, including orders in new markets Panama, Kazakhstan, Bolivia, and Senegal, which underline the strong global demand for wind energy and Vestas' "unparalleled" global reach.
Source: aa.com.tr
The new U.S. order includes supply and commissioning of the turbines with deliveries expected to begin in the third quarter of 2019 and commissioning scheduled for the fourth quarter, according to a statement from the company. "The project and customer are undisclosed as per the customer's request," Vestas said. On Wednesday, the company had confirmed receipt of an order from PacifiCorp, a subsidiary of Berkshire Hathaway Energy, for 47 V110-2.0 MW turbines, delivered in 2.2 MW Power Optimized Mode, to repower the Goodnoe Hills wind project in the U.S. state of Washington. The order includes supply and commissioning of the turbines as well as a long-term service agreement, designed to ensure optimized performance of the project, Vestas said. Turbine delivery will begin in the first quarter of 2019, it added. Wednesday's order follows PacifiCorp's 234 MW order with Vestas to repower the Marengo I and II projects, also located in Washington. According to the press release, Vestas has received orders across six continents so far in the year, including orders in new markets Panama, Kazakhstan, Bolivia, and Senegal, which underline the strong global demand for wind energy and Vestas' "unparalleled" global reach.Source: aa.com.tr