Vestas wins 459MW wind turbine order from PacifiCorp 
14052019

0842
WindDanish wind turbine-maker Vestas has secured an order from PacifiCorp to supply 459MW turbines for two wind farms to be located in Wyoming.PacifiCorp, a subsidiary of Berkshire Hathaway Energy, has placed the order for TB Flats I and II wind farms. For the two wind farms, the order has been placed for V136-4.2MW turbines optimized to be operated at 4.3MW.
 
The TB Flats I and II wind farms are part of PacifiCorp's Energy Vision 2020 initiative, a $3.1bn investment to expand its wind power capabilities. This also includes repowering its existing wind projects and by adding 1.1GW in new wind power by the end of next year and building a 225km of transmission line segment in Wyoming to transmit the energy generated from the wind.
 
Delivery of the wind turbines is expected to take place in the second quarter of next year and the commissioning will take place in the last quarter.
 
As per the order, Vestas will supply and commission the wind turbines, along with executing a 12 year AOM 4000 service agreement, to ensure optimized performance for the project.
Source: compelo.com
PacifiCorp, a subsidiary of Berkshire Hathaway Energy, has placed the order for TB Flats I and II wind farms. For the two wind farms, the order has been placed for V136-4.2MW turbines optimized to be operated at 4.3MW. The TB Flats I and II wind farms are part of PacifiCorp's Energy Vision 2020 initiative, a $3.1bn investment to expand its wind power capabilities. This also includes repowering its existing wind projects and by adding 1.1GW in new wind power by the end of next year and building a 225km of transmission line segment in Wyoming to transmit the energy generated from the wind. Delivery of the wind turbines is expected to take place in the second quarter of next year and the commissioning will take place in the last quarter. As per the order, Vestas will supply and commission the wind turbines, along with executing a 12 year AOM 4000 service agreement, to ensure optimized performance for the project.Source: compelo.com