Vestas stars in Minnesota 
03082018

0944
WindVestas is to supply and commission turbines for Xcel Energy's 200MW Blazing Star wind farm in Minnesota.The deal covers V120 2MW machines totalling 184MW, with the remaining capacity covered by an earlier deal with Vestas.
 
Delivery will start in the third quarter of 2019. The order also includes a 10-year service agreement.
 
Xcel took over development of Blazing Star from Geronimo Energy at the end of last month.
 
The project is part of Xcel's plans to add 3,680MW of new wind generation through 12 projects across seven states throughout its operating territory.
 
The expansion will increase Xcel Energy's wind capacity to more than 10GW by the end of 2021.
 
Xcel Energy Minnesota, North and South Dakota president Chris Clark said: "We look forward to working with Vestas on the first phase of the Blazing Star wind project."
 
Vestas sales and service division president in the US and Canada Chris Brown said: "We are pleased to expand our portfolio with Xcel Energy as part of their ambitious wind expansion."
Source: renews.biz
The deal covers V120 2MW machines totalling 184MW, with the remaining capacity covered by an earlier deal with Vestas. Delivery will start in the third quarter of 2019. The order also includes a 10-year service agreement. Xcel took over development of Blazing Star from Geronimo Energy at the end of last month. The project is part of Xcel's plans to add 3,680MW of new wind generation through 12 projects across seven states throughout its operating territory. The expansion will increase Xcel Energy's wind capacity to more than 10GW by the end of 2021. Xcel Energy Minnesota, North and South Dakota president Chris Clark said: "We look forward to working with Vestas on the first phase of the Blazing Star wind project." Vestas sales and service division president in the US and Canada Chris Brown said: "We are pleased to expand our portfolio with Xcel Energy as part of their ambitious wind expansion."Source: renews.biz