  Despite the market focus on an oil supply surplus, demand side  pressures are also hurting prices, as world trade growth  slows, a top HSBC  economist said on Thursday.  "You have a situation where emerging markets in general are  extremely weak, that in turn is causing commodity prices to  decline rapidly, including oil prices, so rather than saying  lower oil prices are a stimulus for the commodity consuming parts of  the world, I think you should see lower oil prices as a symptom  of weakness in global demand," HSBC's senior economic advisor  Stephen King told CNBC.   Oil prices, already at 12-year lows, extended their decline in  Asian hours, with both U.S. WTI around $30.50 a barrel whileBrent crude has plunged to a fresh 12-year low below $30 a barrel.  The 19-month plunge in oil has mostly been blamed on the Saudi  Arabia-led OPEC  policy of keeping production high even in the face of global  oversupply, in an attempt push out higher production-cost rivals  such as U.S. shale oil producers.  But King said that the forces moving oil were more nuanced than  that. "If it's a situation where it's a reflection of weaker  global demand, you get lower oil prices and at the same time,  much weaker low trade growth," King said.   "If it were simply a supply-side beneficial shock, then you get  lower oil prices, higher real incomes in the west, maybe higher  world trade growth. So it's not just the fall in the oil prices  itself but world trade growth which is extremely  weak - both of  which is symptomatic of this broad deflationary trend."  King did not give a forecast for oil prices but warned of a  broader economic fallout from low  prices, even amid a U.S. automotive sales upswing on the back of  a knock-on slide in the price of gasoline.   "Investment in various parts of the world has been much, much  weaker than expected. Exports are a lot weaker than expected.  More importantly, around the world, there has been very, very  high level of debt," he said.   "The problem with very low inflation or deflation, (when)  interest rates are already at zero, the more the inflation falls,  the higher your debt level becomes, the more difficult it is to  deleverage and you end up with with grinding constraint on the  ability of the global economy to expand."While official (and nominal) policy rates are at record lows, deflation risks pushing up real interest rates, crimping the ability of borrowers to meet their debt commitments and weighing on economic growth. Follow CNBC International on Twitter and Facebook.