Westinghouse to upgrade control system of Bulgaria's Kozloduy NPP 
17012020

1043
NuclearKozloduy nuclear power plant (NPP) to migrate the current Ovation platform-based information and control systems at the plant's units 5 and 6 to its latest standard. 
The migration to the latest Ovation platform will include the integration of a Safety Parameter Display System, Emergency Operator Procedures (EOP) and partial modernization of the Full-Scope Simulator, Westinghouse said in a statement.
 
"The digitalization and modernization of the operating nuclear fleet is a key part of our client's long-term operations and a strategic priority for Westinghouse," Tarik Choho, president of Westinghouse's Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) operating plant services business unit, said.
 
Westinghouse has implemented the Ovation platform at Kozloduy for more than 15 years. The company is committed to maintain the Ovation platform at Kozloduy's only operating units 5 and 6 for a further 30 years, supporting Kozloduy's plans to operate the two units at least until 2049.
 
In November 2019, NPP Kozloduy said that it has invited Westinghouse to upgrade its Ovation information and control system for an estimated 63.5 million levs ($35.9 million/32.7 million euro).
Source: seenews.com
 The migration to the latest Ovation platform will include the integration of a Safety Parameter Display System, Emergency Operator Procedures (EOP) and partial modernization of the Full-Scope Simulator, Westinghouse said in a statement. "The digitalization and modernization of the operating nuclear fleet is a key part of our client's long-term operations and a strategic priority for Westinghouse," Tarik Choho, president of Westinghouse's Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) operating plant services business unit, said. Westinghouse has implemented the Ovation platform at Kozloduy for more than 15 years. The company is committed to maintain the Ovation platform at Kozloduy's only operating units 5 and 6 for a further 30 years, supporting Kozloduy's plans to operate the two units at least until 2049. In November 2019, NPP Kozloduy said that it has invited Westinghouse to upgrade its Ovation information and control system for an estimated 63.5 million levs ($35.9 million/32.7 million euro).Source: seenews.com