  Saudi Arabia wrangled OPEC ministers into a tougher-than-expected  oil production deal — a maneuver critical for its own long-term plans.Wednesday's deal comes as Saudi Arabia is trying to remake its oil-dependent economy into one that is more diversified, under a plan  it calls Vision 2030. A higher oil price would help boost  revenues at a time when it has been running deficits and  borrowing.  "They need a decent oil price, and they need to maintain market  share. Part of the great irony of Vision 2030 is that in order to  diversify the Saudi economy away from oil, they need to sell  oil," said IHS Markit Vice Chairman Daniel Yergin.  The kingdom steered OPEC on Wednesday to cut back on the oil spigot in order to boost prices. All producers have been  struggling with a bruising cycle that has strained budgets and  hampered their ability to reinvest in energy infrastructure. The  Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries agreed to cut production by 1.2 million barrels a day, bringing output to 32.5 million barrels a day.Additionally, OPEC said non-OPEC producers are also expected to contribute with  a 600,000-barrels-per-day reduction, including a surprise 300,000  barrels a day cut by Russia. Saudi Arabia would trim just 486,000  barrels a day, about 300,000 less than expected."The Saudis really pulled off a victory for themselves ... I  think that the most recent sell-off in crude oil scared them all  into this. I think they saw what lay ahead if they didn't do  this," said John Kilduff, founder of investment firm Again Capital.   Higher oil prices should also be a plus for the expected initial  public offering next year of state-owned oil company Saudi  Aramco, a pillar of the kingdom's plan to create a huge sovereign  wealth fund. The world's largest oil exporter is hoping to  diversify into areas such as technology, mining and tourism.  Saudi Arabia may have pushed for the current OPEC deal, but it was  also the main force behind the cartel's November 2014 decision to  abandon OPEC's long-running policy of using output as a lever to control prices. It  instead let the market set prices, in an effort to stem the  growth of high-cost production, especially U.S. shale.  That strategy resulted in OPEC and other producers pumping record  amounts of oil, which ultimately drove prices into the $20s per  barrel this year.   Saudi officials have been vocal about their concerns that low oil  prices make it difficult to reinvest in exploration and  production, and that they ultimately could create a supply shortage  when demand starts to rise.  "I think the Saudi minister has been very explicit now for over a  year, warning that the underinvestment could lead to a fly up in  prices before the end of the decade, and that is something they  don't want to see. They recognize that low prices are a big  problem, but so are high prices — if you're a long-term  supplier — because it erodes demand and encourages alternatives,"  said Yergin.  Michael Cohen, head of energy commodities research at Barclays,  said Saudi Oil Minister Khalid al-Falih mentioned the  industry's need to increase capital expenditures in his remarks in Vienna on Wednesday.  "At the end of the day, what Saudi Arabia is worried about is they  wanted to get the engine started on investment. They don't see it  starting when oil is at $35 to $45," he said.   The agreement to cut production comes at the end of a year of  failed efforts, and several days of high drama between  producers, who quibbled over how much cutting each would  contribute in order to rein in the global oil glut. West Texas  Intermediate oil futures plunged Tuesday, and then rallied 9  percent Wednesday in response to the accord. Whether the proposed  deal works remains to be seen, but even the semblance  of an agreement is expected to be positive for  prices.   "There was a lot of overnight diplomacy. That was the turning  point. The skeptics in the room needed to see the numbers. It  looks like the Saudis drove the hardest bargain on specificity.  They knew what the market needed, and they pushed it through,"  said Helima Croft, head of global commodities strategy at RBC.      "I think even the requirement for non-OPEC (nations) is really about the  Saudis looking for the most credible statement they could get. I  think they understood there was so much skepticism in the  market," she said.  Saudi Arabia's reform effort is being led by  31-year-old Deputy Crown Prince  Mohammed bin Salman, the favorite son of King Salman.  Croft said the OPEC oil deal should help the country's reform program, as  it could alleviate economic pressure and buy the young  prince some time. The kingdom has cut back on entitlements, subsidies  on things like fuel, and even on salaries.  "They risk popular backlash. This will be a popular decision in  Saudi Arabia, and it gives Mohammed bin Salman some breathing  room," she said.   But stability in the market could bring back the very competitors  OPEC was trying to stop. The U.S. industry in the last decade  shocked the world when it used new shale-based technologies and  horizontal drilling to suddenly boost oil production. When OPEC  unleashed its market-based strategy in 2014, the U.S. had added  4 million barrels a day of production in just six years.  According to U.S. government data, the U.S. produced 8.7 million  barrels a day last week, about a million barrels a day below its  peak in spring of 2015.   "The problem is Saudi Arabia is really testing the elasticity of  shale, and they've been testing the elasticity of shale for the  last two years, the new source of supply. If their actions lead  to an increase in the price to a band of $50 to $60, what kind of  shale response would we get? Nobody knows the answer to that  question. Their foreign exchange reserve continues to tick lower.  They have Vision 2030. The war on Yemen is continuing, and they  have the Aramco IPO, and higher prices are conceptually a better  platform for all of those things — the Yemen war,  Vision 2030 and the IPO," said Cohen.  He said Saudi Arabia viewed U.S. shale growth of 1 million to 1.5  million barrels a day as disruptive. "They weren't comfortable  with that level of growth, and who is to say they won't be  comfortable with 200,000 to 300,000? That's what we expect — 200,000 barrels a day of growth from the lower 48" states in 2017, Cohen said.