  Civil strife and terrorism in Yemen could pose a greater threat  to the Gulf countries of the Middle East than tumbling oil  prices, a major bank said on Tuesday.   "We can't help but think that the turmoil in Yemen is the  emerging and underappreciated risk for investors in GCC (Gulf  Cooperation Council) stocks," said Citi analysts Josh Levin and  Rahul Bajaj in a research note distributed from London on  Tuesday. Despite worries about Islamic insurgency and destabilization in  the Middle East and North Africa, investors in the oil-exporting  GCC countries of Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and  the United Arab Emirates (UAE) have focused on the potential hit  from the slump in energy prices, with crude oil down around 50  percent since a peak in June 2014. Read MoreOil collapse will hit the Gulf, but don't  panic  However, Levin and Bajaj said that increasing strife in  Yemen—which borders Saudi Arabia to the south and Oman to  the west— could be an "underappreciated risk" to the  GCC.   "One of the key takeaways from our GCC trip in early February  came from an executive in Qatar who observed that while most  people are focused on the price of oil, the recent instability in  Yemen posed a greater and underappreciated risk to the GCC.  Recent events appear to bear out this executive's observation,"  they said on Tuesday.   Yemen is in the grips of a worsening civil war, with fighting  intensifying between ousted Sunni President Abd-Rabbuh Mansuh  Hadi and the Shiite, anti-American rebels who seized power in a  coup in January.   The rebels also face violent resistance from Sunni tribesman and  competing Islamist extremists in the south.  Last week,  suicide bombers opposed to the rebels killed 137 people and  injured more than 300 others during Friday prayers in the Yemini  capital of Sana'a.    On Monday, the Saudi Arabian foreign minister said the GCC would  take "necessary measures" to resolve the Yemeni conflict,  according to media reports. This is in response to requests for  military assistance from Hadi, who belongs to the same Muslim  Sunni sect as Saudi Arabia's leaders.   Levin and Bajaj warned that the turmoil in Yemen had the  potential to spill over into nearby countries.    "We have no edge or ability to predict whether or not the  conflict in Yemen will spill over into neighboring countries or  impact other GCC countries," they said.  "However, we observe that the scope and pace of events in the  Middle East (the 'Arab Spring' and its attendant local conflicts,  the spread of ISIS, etc.) over the past few years has taken  almost everybody by surprise." Read MoreWhy the chaos in Yemen matters to  investors  The analysts noted that the risk of unrest spreading could hit  stocks in the GCC—which has previously been seen as  something of a safe haven in an "otherwise tumultuous part of the  world." This in turn has benefited countries' economies and  banking systems.   "We conclude that the tail risk for the GCC bank stocks has grown  fatter," Levin and Bajaj said. "That is, although the likelihood  that regional events will negatively impact the GCC remains very  low in an absolute sense, the likelihood is greater than it was a  month or two ago."