 India's growing tensions with neighbor Pakistan  may create short-term volatility in the stock  market, but analysts said Friday the world's fastest-growing  major economy was still a positive, long-term investment  prospect.  On Thursday, the Nifty 50 closed down 1.76 percent at 8,591.25  and the Sensex fell 1.64 percent to 27,827.53 against a broadly  positive trading backdrop in Asia. On Friday afternoon, both  indexes traded near flat.  The Indian rupee fell from levels as high as 66.3175 against the  dollar to as low as 66.9450 on Thursday following news that  the Indian army conducted strikes against militants in Kashmir,  which commentators said marked the biggest intraday fall of the  currency since the Brexit vote.  "Risk sentiments soured amidst reports of Indian armed forces and  neighboring Pakistan exchanging fire along the northern border,"  said Radhika Rao, an economist at Singapore's DBS Bank, in a note  on Friday.  Investor sentiment was hurt Thursday after India announced its army  conducted "surgical strikes" against terrorists along  the Line of Control, which runs through the disputed territory of  Kashmir. Pakistani military denied such strikes, calling them an  "illusion" created by India, but said there had been cross border  fire initiated and conducted by India.   This followed an attack by  terrorists on an Indian army base in Kashmir where 19  Indian soldiers were killed, according to local media reports.  BNP Paribas' chief economist for emerging markets, Richard Iley,  told CNBC's "Capital Connection" that Thursday's incident was  a "military jab" as opposed to an "all-out hay maker" in  response to the earlier attack.  "We are in a new era of uncertainty in this cross-border  relation. By definition, [it means] more volatility, a higher  risk premium which can be attached to Indian assets," Iley  added.  DBS' Rao reckoned that while investors will be watching future  developments closely, barring an escalation, the current weakness  in Indian stocks was "mostly driven by profit-taking interests  after the sharp year-to-date rally."   The Nifty 50 was up 8.11 percent year-to-date, while the Sensex  has gained 6.54 percent for the same period. By comparison, the  MSCI Asia Pacific ex Japan index was up 10.82 percent.  Investor sentiment towards India has grown notably since Narendra  Modi's government came into power two years ago and introduced  sweeping reforms that included opening up key sectors such  as defense and aviation to foreign investors.  India's growth trajectory is also expected to  accelerate, while the pace of global growth is set to  crawl, with a host of political and economic uncertainties  looming over major world economies including the U.S., China,  Japan and the UK for the rest of the year.  "India seems to be on a cyclical upturn, with a pretty good  government and isolated enough from international events that you  could look for opportunities there," Richard Martin, managing  director at IMA Asia, told CNBC's "Squawk Box" on Friday.  BNP's Iley further pointed to the fact that the Indian economy  has also become more competitive. According to the World Economic  Forum's latest competitiveness survey, India climbed to 39th from  the 55th position it finished in the previous year.    "This really speaks to the gradual, progressive improvement in  the business climate [in India],"  he said, suggesting a  slowing growth in China was further swinging momentum towards the  country.  Iley added the equity market's relatively high valuations were  backed by the country's sound fundamentals. "There's a lot of  money still wanting to come into India ... we do get these types  of risk events, and the market will be prone to pull back but ...  a big down draft in stocks look pretty unlikely at this  stage."  For investors looking for opportunities in the country, Martin  pointed out two key sectors - manufacturing and consumer  firms.  The manufacturing sector is expected to receive a boost when  India's historic goods and services (GST) reform  bill, approved in parliament  in early August, comes into play next year, when it is set to  simplify India's byzantine tax infrastructure.  "That is going to be a messy operation ... [but] it will favor  the manufacturing sector, which has been struggling for a number  of years," Martin said.  He added manufacturing firms would have an easier access to the  national market as the reformed GST bill is set to replace a  confusing mass of central, state, inter-state and local taxes  with structured tax rates. "They don't have to pay all those  fiddly little taxes every time they ship across state  borders."  Consumer firms are also set to receive a boost from India's  growing demographic of a large, middle class consumer base,  according to Martin. "They break into two likes; the fast-moving  consumer goods firms and now, more interestingly, the e-commerce  players."  Recently, reports suggested U.S. retail giant Wal-Mart was in  talks to acquire a minority stake in India's largest  e-commerce player, Flipkart.  Following Wednesday's decision from the Organization of Petroleum  Exporting Countries (OPEC) to hold talks about curbing production  levels at their official November meeting, oil prices climbed  some 7 percent.  As a net importer of oil, higher prices would theoretically  increase India's import bill and exert pressure on the  rupee.  DBS' Rao, however, pointed out OPEC needed to formally agree and  implement a supply curb and then prices needed to rise to $60 a  barrel before it became a serious source of concern for  investors. — Follow CNBC International on Twitter and Facebook.