  As U.S. oil production soars, momentum appears to be building  toward lifting the U.S. ban on exporting crude. But a debate over  the economics of the issue—namely, whether adding to global  supply will result in lower oil and gas prices—remains a  sticking point.  On the pro-side of the argument, oil producers and free-market  champions are promoting the virtues of sharing America's shale  bounty with the rest of the world. They contend that by  increasing the world's supply of the light, sweet crude produced in the U.S.,  downward pressure will come to bear on global oil prices,  resulting in lower prices at the gasoline pump.   Not so fast, say an emerging camp of opponents. Led mainly by  U.S. refiners resistant to changing a status quo that's prevailed  for nearly 40 years, they side with frustrated consumers who have  yet to see the production boom bring about lower oil and gas  prices at home.  "Wall Street economists and academics have dramatically  oversimplified the issue," said Philip Verleger, an independent  energy economist. He said that a dearth of pipeline  infrastructure in the U.S. means that crude produced inland in  places like North Dakota and Texas is "bottled up" and can't make  its way to coastal ports in significant enough volume to satisfy  demand. Read MoreCalls for end to crude oil export ban  are getting louder  "It's quite a complicated issue," Verleger said, adding that  removing the ban would hurt the margins of refiners and won't  have the halo effect of lower prices that some predict. It's not  at all clear that such a move would ease consumers' energy pain,  he argues.  U.S. crude exports would "move some abroad, and mean we import  less," he said. "My guess on a global basis there's no impact [on  prices]…and it moves money from one pocket to another."  At the center of the policy debate are U.S. refiners, which earn  billions by shipping gas, diesel and other oil-based products  abroad. At least for the time being, they approach the argument  with a large dose of skepticism.  Bill Day, a spokesman for Valero  Energy—a refiner that already exports limited amounts of  crude to Canada—told CNBC that "we believe the current  system…is working just fine. We don't see any need to  change." (The Commerce Department has made exceptions for some exports, but they amounted to only 120,000 barrels  per day in exports in 2013, according to data from the Energy  Information Administration.) Read MoreUS oil export ban could end, but does  demand exist?  Additionally, opponents say that OPEC, whose member states often reduce production in  response to falling crude prices, could easily offset any U.S.  supply boost. In December, Saudi Arabia cut its output by nearly  5 percent to 9 million barrels a day. Although Saudi officials  offered heated denials, some speculated the  move was a deliberate attempt to keep  propped above $100.    "The fundamental flaw is that [a lifting of the export ban]  assumes there is no response from Saudi Arabia and other OPEC  countries," said Jeff Peck, a partner at Peck Madigan &  Jones, which is spearheading an effort by refiners to push back  against an end to the export ban.   "History suggests that Saudis will not sit on their hands—if  there is an increase in supply, they will decrease theirs,"  said Peck. "That means the prices of gas will not go down as  advocates suggest."  The anti-export lobbying effort, comprising an ad-hoc group of refiners  that include PBF Energy, Monroe  Energy and Philadelphia Energy Services, is called Consumers and  Refiners United for Domestic Energy (CRUDE).  "We are on the same side of consumers, because prices will go  up," Peck said. "It defies common sense that the Saudis will sit  there and do nothing" if the U.S. pumps world markets with its  oil. Read MoreOil will stay above $100, say big oil  investors  Still, some say lifting the export moratorium and shipping crude  abroad is more of a necessity than a luxury. In an exhaustive study  of the U.S. shale boom last month, RBC Capital Markets said the U.S. will be glutted with an oversupply of shale-derived oil  within the next few years—and will need to send at least  some of it overseas.   "The most efficient way to alleviate a glut of U.S. onshore crude  is to allow crude exports," the bank wrote. "We think that either  U.S. oil production growth will need to begin slowing down in late 2015, or the U.S. will need to have  light oil exports to keep the refining system from being overwhelmed in 2016."—By CNBC's Javier David.