Wind to be EU's largest power source well before 2030 
14112018

0954
WindWind energy is set to overtake coal, nuclear and gas to become the EU's largest power source well before 2030, WindEurope quoted the International Energy Agency's (IEA) World Energy Outlook Report on Tuesday.According to the IEA's projections, wind energy will become the EU's largest power source in 2027, overtaking coal, nuclear and then gas in the process.
 
"This is compared to the IEA's last projection made in its 2017 World Energy Outlook, where it said this would happen 'soon after 2030,'" WindEurope said.
 
According to the IEA, wind electricity generation in the EU will more than triple to 1,100 terawatt-hours (TWh) by 2040.
 
WindEurope CEO Giles Dickson said "this is a resounding vote of confidence in the further expansion of wind power in Europe."
 
"We've long been saying that more wind makes economic sense, as we're the cheapest form of new power. It's great that the IEA now sees wind being the no. 1 source of electricity in Europe in less than ten years," Dickson said.
 
"That'll mean new wind farms and modernization of existing ones, all of which will bring jobs, growth and revenues to local communities," he added.
Source: aa.com.tr
According to the IEA's projections, wind energy will become the EU's largest power source in 2027, overtaking coal, nuclear and then gas in the process. "This is compared to the IEA's last projection made in its 2017 World Energy Outlook, where it said this would happen 'soon after 2030,'" WindEurope said. According to the IEA, wind electricity generation in the EU will more than triple to 1,100 terawatt-hours (TWh) by 2040. WindEurope CEO Giles Dickson said "this is a resounding vote of confidence in the further expansion of wind power in Europe." "We've long been saying that more wind makes economic sense, as we're the cheapest form of new power. It's great that the IEA now sees wind being the no. 1 source of electricity in Europe in less than ten years," Dickson said. "That'll mean new wind farms and modernization of existing ones, all of which will bring jobs, growth and revenues to local communities," he added.Source: aa.com.tr