  The prospect of a harsh northern hemisphere winter, an  Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) supply  cut and a volatile geopolitical picture may send oil prices back  towards $100 a barrel, a CNBC survey of strategists and traders  showed.   Benchmark Brent crude oil - used to price two-thirds of oil  globally - has entered a bear market, falling more than 20  percent since June, as ample supply and weak demand growth weigh.  CNBC's forward-looking findings show opinion is evenly split over  the path oil prices will take in the final three months of the  year—although a strong bearish bias persists. Almost half  the respondents (49 percent, or 17 out of 35) expect Brent to  gain this quarter, while 51 percent (18 out of 35) forecast  declines.   "We look for a seasonal pick-up in oil product demand, a cold  winter and OPEC production cuts as requirements to prevent a more  dramatic slump in the crude oil price," Deutsche Bank commodity strategists led by  Michael Lewis said in a quarterly report on September 30.   The European Union is mediating talks aimed at settling a gas  dispute between embattled Ukraine and Russia, and is concerned  about disruptions to its own supplies. Europe receives about a  third of its gas from Russia, some 40 percent of which is pumped  via Ukraine. 'Winter of the Russian Bear'  Some central European countries continue to report declines in  Russian gas deliveries, the Wall Street Journal reported on  September 22, as tensions between Ukraine and Russia persist in  the run-up to winter.  "I think this will be the winter of the 'Russian Bear,'" said  Thomas McMahon, CEO of Singapore-based UD Trading Group and the  former CEO of the Singapore Mercantile Exchange.  Read MoreWhy the crude oil crush could  accelerate  Russian President Vladimir Putin may be able to make up for lost  gas volumes flowing into Europe, McMahon said, because energy  deals with Beijing mean "he's got China in his side pocket for  revenue."   Meanwhile, OPEC producers may opt to cut supply when they meet on  November 27, or may even authorize a decision earlier, if prices  continue their relentless slide.   "OPEC has to be really concerned," said Carl Larry, president of  Houston-based consultancy Oil Outlooks.   The average price of OPEC's basket of 12 crudes has fallen below  $90 a barrel for the first time in two years.   "We believe production cuts by OPEC should allow Brent crude oil  prices to stabilize and trade around $100 a barrel, with repeated  spikes," said UBS strategists Giovanni Staunovo and Dominic  Schnider.  Why the oil price decline is failing  to boost Europe  "Saudi Arabia is well-positioned to act as a 'put' against lower  prices. The Kingdom holds much of the world's limited spare  capacity of just 2.5-3.0 million barrels a day."   Oil prices in the last three months of this year will be "heavily  dependent" on the action taken by swing producer Saudi Arabia,  said Fereidun Fesharaki, chairman of energy consultancy FACTS  Global Energy and a former energy adviser to the Prime Minister  of Iran in the 1970s.  "So far, they have allowed oil prices to fall, and kept  production flat at 9.6 million barrels a day,' Fesharaki told  CNBC in an email. "We expect they will cut back production and  prices will go to around $95."