  Contracts for U.S. crude pared earlier losses to settle down 14 cents at $74.50 after Libya's  representative to OPEC fueled hopes of an output cut, prompting  traders to focus on next week's meeting of the producer group and  ignore an unexpected surge in U.S. crude inventories.  Oil prices rose on Wednesday after Libya's representative to  OPEC fueled hopes of an output  cut, prompting traders to focus on next week's meeting of the  producer group and ignore an unexpected surge in U.S. crude  inventories.  U.S. crude stockpiles rose 2.6 million barrels last week,  compared with forecasts of a 800,000-barrel draw, as imports rose  to meet demand from refineries hiking runs after seasonal  maintenance, data from the Energy Information Administration  showed.  U.S. crude and Brent futures shrugged off the bearish build and  were both up about 1 percent after Libya's OPEC Governor Samir  Kamal told Reuters he expected the group at a Nov. 27 meeting to  agree to stop producing over its target, a step that would cut  about 600,000 barrels per day. Read MoreEnergy in 25 years: Who's producing,  who's buying   Unseasonably cold weather across America and a 2-million barrel  draw in distillate supplies last week also provided support to  prices of U.S. heating oil, as  temperatures in all of the country's 50 states hit freezing  levels or below on Tuesday.  Meanwhile, U.S. natural gas  soared to its highest level since early last  week. Front-month gas futures on the New York Mercantile  Exchange were last up 14 cents, or about 3 percent, at  $4.38 per million BTUs, having gained nearly 6 percent  earlier.   was down 20 cents at $78.27 a  barrel by 2 p.m. EDT. It fell 42 cents earlier to a session low  of $78.05, after closing down in two previous sessions. Read More Other possible winners from  the Halliburton deal  "Clearly, everyone's thoughts are on OPEC, so it's not surprising  at all to see the feeble market reaction to the EIA," said Kyle  Cooper, managing director at Houston energy consultancy IAF  Advisors.  Oil ministers from the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting  Countries will meet in Vienna to consider adjusting their output  target of 30 million bpd. Fears of an oil glut and a 30 percent  drop in Brent prices since June have led a few producers to clamor for sharp output cuts. But OPEC heavyweight Saudi Arabia  hasn't said it will support that.  Morgan Stanley oil analysts led by Adam Longson said in a  research note they thought OPEC was likely to cut production  sooner or later.Read More  ISIS in trouble: What could this mean for oil?  But seasoned OPEC veterans told Reuters they did not know which  way the group will lean.  "For the first time, I really do not know what is likely to  happen at the meeting. It is not clear," one long-serving senior  OPEC delegate said.