U.S. crude settled up $1 at $75.88 per barrel on Thursday as  strong U.S. economic data bolstered crude markets but focus  remained on whether OPEC will cut enough output to end a  five-month long sell-off when it meets next week.  Factory activity in the U.S. mid-Atlantic region grew at its  fastest pace in two decades, U.S. home resales jumped to their  highest in more than a year in October, and a gauge of future  U.S. economic activity gained more than expected last month. The  data offset growth worries in the euro zone and China.  On the OPEC front, chances have risen in recent days that the  Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries will agree on  reducing production when it meets Nov. 27, said analysts, citing  meetings between group members. Read MoreThe big, immediate threat for a foreign  oil giant oil was up $1.26 at $79.36 a barrel by 2:30 p.m. EDT.  Oil traders said a Tweet earlier on Thursday from an account  apparently held by Saudi Arabia's King Abdullah had briefly  boosted the market. According to the message, the monarch said he  had an "important phone conversation" with Iranian President  Hassan Rouhani, suggesting increased OPEC dialogue. A source in  the Gulf later said the Twitter account was fake.  "The market seems to be riding the wave of the strong U.S. data.  There's also growing speculation that OPEC may do something to  support prices," said Phil Flynn, analyst at Price Futures Group  in Chicago.  OPEC members Iran, Venezuela and Libya have urged fellow crude  producers to support oil prices, which are down 30 percent from  June to four-year lows. Kuwait and Iran have said a cut is  unlikely. Read MoreUS shale and OPEC oil: Game of  chicken?  Austrian consultancy JBC Energy said it expects OPEC to reduce at  least 1 million barrels per day to clear some of the  inventory overhang.  "If anything, the cut could be bigger," it said in a note.  New York-based consultancy Eurasia Group is pessimistic about a  cut.  "It is increasingly likely that an agreement on a 'headline'  production cut will not materialize, despite the current flurry  of pre-meeting diplomacy," it said.