Yamal LNG starts gas exports from second LNG train 
10082018

0839
LNGTotal has announced that the first shipment of liquefied natural gas (LNG) from the second train of the Yamal LNG project in Northern Russia is ready to leave Sabetta.This train adds an additional 5.5 million tons per year of LNG capacity to the facility, bringing the total capacity in operation to 11 million tons per year. At full capacity, the three-train facility will supply 16.5 million tons of LNG per year to Asian and European markets. The third train is expected to start up in early 2019.
 
"Following the successful start-up of Yamal LNG in December last year, the first shipment from the second train ahead of schedule is another major milestone for this world-class LNG project," commented Patrick Pouyanne, Chairman and CEO of Total. "The Yamal LNG production adds competitive LNG resources to our growing portfolio. We will keep developing new LNG projects in the Russian Arctic with our strategic partner Novatek, as illustrated by the recent announcement of our entry in Arctic LNG 2 with 10% direct working interest."
 
Last May, Novatek and Total also agreed that Total will have the opportunity to acquire a 10 to 15% direct interest in Novatek's future LNG projects in Yamal and Gydan.
Source: compelo.com
This train adds an additional 5.5 million tons per year of LNG capacity to the facility, bringing the total capacity in operation to 11 million tons per year. At full capacity, the three-train facility will supply 16.5 million tons of LNG per year to Asian and European markets. The third train is expected to start up in early 2019. "Following the successful start-up of Yamal LNG in December last year, the first shipment from the second train ahead of schedule is another major milestone for this world-class LNG project," commented Patrick Pouyanne, Chairman and CEO of Total. "The Yamal LNG production adds competitive LNG resources to our growing portfolio. We will keep developing new LNG projects in the Russian Arctic with our strategic partner Novatek, as illustrated by the recent announcement of our entry in Arctic LNG 2 with 10% direct working interest." Last May, Novatek and Total also agreed that Total will have the opportunity to acquire a 10 to 15% direct interest in Novatek's future LNG projects in Yamal and Gydan.Source: compelo.com