African goldBig-game huntingFEW companies are dearer to their home countries than Ashanti Goldfields is to Ghana. That is why a recent brace of bids from South African competitors for the gold producer--one long in the works from AngloGold, for shares worth $1.1 billion, and a late entry from Randgold, for shares initially worth $400m more--are making for a takeover battle that is likely to be as much about politics as economics. The biggest wrinkle is that 17% of Ashanti is owned by the Ghanaian government, which also has a golden share giving it the right to veto any takeover.Ghana's government is no doubt keen to save face as it sells off its crown jewel. Just four years ago, Ashanti was nearly brought to its knees by, ironically, rising gold prices. That was thanks to its use of derivatives, sold to it by sophisticated European and American banks, that were designed to reduce Ashanti's exposure to falling gold prices, but which ended up presenting the firm with a $500m margin call. With the firm facing bankruptcy, the government rejected plans for a takeover. Ashanti instead gave its banks warrants for shares, diluting existing shareholders, including the government. That debacle left Ashanti with a weak balance sheet, still fragile despite steadily rising gold prices in recent years. It also had to sell 50% of its new mine in Tanzania to AngloGold.That relationship is only one reason why the bid by AngloGold is still likely to succeed--thus restoring the firm, by a whisker, to its position as the world's largest producer of gold. Bobby Godsell, AngloGold's boss, and Sam Jonah, Ashanti's charismatic leader, are close friends. AngloGold promises to invest hundreds of millions (perhaps even $1 billion) in Ashanti's Obuasi mine in Ghana, and has made the right noises about preserving jobs and even expanding Ashanti's headquarters in Accra. AngloGold has better technology for deep mining, which could greatly assist Ashanti.But AngloGold will not find it as easy as it hoped to bag its prey, thanks to Randgold's intervention, announced just after AngloGold had gone public with a formal bid. Randgold's offer seems especially odd, given that the company is just half the size of Ashanti and operates but a single mine, in Mali (jointly, with none other than AngloGold). It has neither the technological advantages of AngloGold nor the bigger firm's access to finance. But Randgold certainly knows how to play to local sentiment: its main appeal seems to be that it would put the word Ashanti first in the merged firm's name. (AngloGold will call itself AngloGold Ashanti everywhere except Ghana, where it will be, yes, Ashanti AngloGold.)Whether or not Randgold's bid is serious, it will probably have the effect of putting pressure on AngloGold to offer more for Ashanti. That should please shareholders mightily, especially Ghana's government. One South African newspaper report even suggested that Ghana's minister of mines solicited the Randgold offer, hoping to force up the bidding. Another big shareholder, Lonmin, a British mining firm, made clear that it was open to competing offers, after it had earlier seemed to have announced its acceptance of AngloGold's terms.For Mr Godsell, this may be a make or break deal. He now seems to fancy himself as the pied piper of pan-African economic integration. He sees the merger not only as logical in business terms, but more grandly as a symbol of Africa's glorious future. That will please South Africa's President Thabo Mbeki, the driving force behind the pan-African New Partnership for Africa's Development. More mundanely, having lost out to America's Newmont in the battle over Normandy, an Australian miner (which made Newmont the world's biggest gold miner), this may be Mr Godsell's last chance to reclaim the top spot for AngloGold and, perhaps more usefully, to diversify his mining assets away from South Africa--where there are big political risks ranging from policy to tackle AIDS to the taxation and regulation of mining. (Not that Ghana necessarily involves any less political risk than South Africa.)American and Canadian giants, such as Newmont or Barrick, could afford to pay more for Ashanti. However, despite speculation that they may do so, neither has yet come forward--perhaps because they fear political obstacles. Even if one or both did join the hunt, they might not win. When it comes to the pursuit of an African champion, money may not be everything.