Alcoa, Nucor Report Third-Quarter Earningszerophoto/Adobe StockAlthough we have entered the fourth quarter of 2017, it's the time of year during which companies update shareholders and other interested entities on their third-quarter performance.Alcoa and Nucor were among the latest metals companies to announce their third-quarter earnings (on Wednesday and Thursday, respectively).Benchmark Your Current Metal Price by Grade, Shape and Alloy: See How it Stacks UpAlcoa, which specializes in bauxite, alumina and aluminum products, reported third-quarter net income of $132 million, or $0.72 per share.The company also posted $2.96 billion in third-quarter revenue, up from $2.86 billion in the second quarter.The company raised its 2017 outlook for adjusted EBITDA  -- or earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization -- to $2.4 billion, up from a previous estimate of $2.1 billion to $2.2 billion."Alcoa continues to benefit from favorable commodity markets, and we've raised our projections for profitability in 2017 and global aluminum demand growth for the balance of the year," said Roy Harvey, president and chief executive officer, in a company release announcing the third-quarter earnings. "We continued to execute on our three strategic priorities -- our strong cash generation aligns with our priority to strengthen the balance sheet, while our recent Rockdale announcement advances our priorities to reduce complexity and drive returns."The company is approaching a milestone, having initiated its run as an independent, publicly traded firm on Nov. 1, 2016."As we approach our first anniversary as an independent, publicly-traded company, we'll continue to be guided by our three strategic priorities to further strengthen our Company and Alcoa's foundation for the future," Harvey said.The company's EBITDA got a boost earlier this month when Alcoa announced the termination of a power contract tied to its Rockdale Operations -- fully curtailed since 2008 -- in Texas. According to the release, beginning in the fourth quarter the termination is expected to result in an additional $60 million to $70 million in annual net income and adjusted EBITDA.Growth in the aluminum market has added wind to the firm's sails. As for supply, Alcoa expects the global market to be balanced for 2017, departing from its second-quarter projection of a slight surplus surplus."The improvement is mostly due to planned and actual curtailments in Chinese smelting capacity as well as increased Chinese demand," the Alcoa release states.Nucor, meanwhile, announced Thursday consolidated net earnings of $268.5 million, or $0.83 per diluted share, for the third quarter of 2017. In the second quarter of this year, Nucor reported earnings of $323.0 million, or $1.00 per diluted share. As for the third quarter of 2016, it reported earnings of $305.4 million, or $0.95 per diluted share.However, earnings through the first nine months of this year exceed those of the same time frame of every year since 2008, according to Jim Frias, Nucor's chief financial officer.For the period of January-September, Nucor reported consolidated net earnings of $948.4 million, or $2.94 per diluted share, compared with consolidated net earnings of $636.6 million, or $1.99 per diluted share, for the first nine months of last year."Nucor's disciplined strategy for profitable growth is working," Frias said during Nucor's third-quarter earnings call on Thursday. "During the steel industry's protracted downturn, we have invested aggressively to increase our capabilities for delivering value to our customers and profitable growth for our shareholders."Frias added that the third-quarter earnings decline from the previous quarter is largely attributable to lower capacity utilization rates and metal margins in its steel segment, in addition to an unplanned outage at its Louisiana DRI plant, which began in late July before operations resumed earlier this month.Looking ahead, Frias said they see stable or improving conditions in a number of markets for 2018, including non-residential construction, automotive, energy, heavy equipment and agriculture."Although illegally traded imports remain at unacceptable levels, we are encouraged by the cumulative benefits of the U.S. steel industry's successful trade cases," Frias added.Similarly, Chairman and CEO John Ferriola touched on this year's "renewed surge of illegally traded imports into the U.S.," citing the 27% year-to-date market share for finished steel imports."Nucor continues to believe significant work remains to be done to achieve free and fair trade for U.S. manufacturers," Ferriola said. "More specifically, it's time for comprehensive and broad-based remedies that address the illegal foreign trade practices that have materially weakened our nation's economic vitality."He also added that Nucor applauds the U.S. International Trade Commission's affirmative ruling Oct. 5 regarding washing machine imports (stemming from a petition filed by Whirlpool). A public hearing on remedies with respect to the case was held yesterday, Oct. 19.In other company developments, last month Nucor announced its board of directors had approved a new steel bar micro mill project. Nucor is considering the states of Nebraska, Kansas, Missouri, South Carolina and Florida for the project.Free Download: The October 2017 MMI ReportOther metals companies also have earnings announcements on the horizon. AK Steel will announce its third-quarter earnings Oct. 31.  U.S. Steel's third-quarter earnings call is scheduled for 8:30 a.m. EDT on Nov. 1.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service