Alcoa, United Steelworkers Reach Tentative Agreement on Four-Year Labor DealPittsburgh-based Alcoa Corporation announced it had reached a tentative agreement on a four-year labor deal with the United Steelworkers union, a deal covering five locations and 1,700 employees.Need buying strategies for steel? Request your two-month free trial of MetalMiner's OutlookAlcoa is a producer of bauxite, alumina and aluminum products. Alcoa shares closed Friday up 0.73% at $17.93."The United Steelworkers will now set the date for its members to vote on the proposal, which will cover employees represented by the union at Warrick Operations in Indiana, Massena Operations in New York, Gum Springs in Arkansas, Wenatchee Works in Washington, and Point Comfort in Texas," Alcoa said in a release."Most of the union members eligible to vote on the proposed Master Agreement are employed at Warrick Operations, where the union represents employees at the aluminum smelter and rolling mill, and at the Massena Operations smelter. The Point Comfort alumina refinery and the Wenatchee Works aluminum smelter are both fully curtailed."According to Alcoa, the union is now set to schedule a vote on the agreement. The parties had agreed May 15 to honor the existing contract to avoid a work stoppage and allow for further negotiations."We came to the table months ago prepared to negotiate in good faith for a fair contract, but management made us fight for it every step of the way," USW International President Tom Conway said in a release. "We are proud of what we have accomplished due to the unity, strength and solidarity of local union leaders, members and Contract Action Teams."The USW negotiating committee will recommend the proposed agreement for ratification by union members.Want to see an Aluminum Price forecast? Take a free trial!"The proposed contract builds on decades of collective bargaining progress with hard-fought economic and non-economic improvements," USW District 7 Director Michael Millsap said. "Our members have earned and deserve fair wages, benefits and working conditions." Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service