AluminiumHunter or hunted"YOU have to be bigger than the hole you can fall in." With those words Alain Belda, the boss of Alcoa, justified his firm's $27 billion bid this week for Alcan, a rival aluminium producer. Earlier this year RUSAL and SUAL, two Russian firms, merged in a deal that displaced Alcoa as the world's biggest aluminium company. The Alcan deal would restore Alcoa to the top spot, with roughly a fifth of the world's output.Increased scale would help Alcoa and Alcan cut costs and win back customers from Russian and Chinese competitors, Mr Belda argues. It would also help the combined entity to weather any problems at new facilities being built in distant and unstable countries. Investors appear to agree with his reasoning. On news of the bid, Alcoa's shares jumped by 8% and Alcan's soared by 34%.That makes a happy change. In recent years Alcoa's share price has lagged behind Alcan's and the price of aluminium (see chart). Recent announcements that the firm would buy back shares and sell some divisions generated much less excitement. But the bid faces several obstacles. Although Alcan's board has said it will consider the offer, it might prove resistant. The two firms discussed a friendly merger last year but were unable to agree terms. Regulators might also scupper the deal. After all, Alcan owes its existence to an antitrust action in the 1920s that forced Alcoa to spin off its non-American business. Mr Belda hopes that selling a few assets will satisfy regulators. But they are certain to give the deal thorough scrutiny.The Canadian authorities, in particular, will be reluctant to approve the takeover of Alcan, the country's biggest metals firm and a national icon. Alcoa's management is bending over backwards to please the province of Quebec, where Alcan has its headquarters. Mr Belda showed off his fluent French while promising that several of the merged firm's divisions would be run from Montreal. But politicians are already harrumphing.The biggest threat is that another firm will make an offer for Alcan or try to buy Alcoa itself. Big mining firms are awash with cash thanks to high metals prices. The price of Alcan's shares has risen beyond the offer price, implying that investors expect Alcoa to sweeten its bid or another firm to enter the fray.Alcoa is seen as a possible takeover target because of its weak performance. Some shareholders say it should put itself up for sale. Last year Phelps Dodge, an American mining firm, announced plans to buy two smaller rivals. But other firms snapped up its would-be acquisitions and then Phelps Dodge itself. Mr Belda may yet avoid one hole, but fall into another.