Aluminium and antitrustFrench twistIN THIS summer of corporate love, the unwanted embrace of Pechiney, a French aluminium company, by Alcan, its Canadian rival, could become a thorny romance. Alcan's offer recalls a friendly menage a trois attempted in 1999 between Alcan, Pechiney and Alusuisse of Switzerland, which was rudely interrupted by offended European antitrust officials. Even so, Alcan went ahead with the purchase of Alusuisse. Will this new, hostile attempt to complete the earlier threesome--thereby creating an aluminium giant to rival America's Alcoa--fare any better? Pechiney's board has rejected Alcan's offer as much too low, and is said to be seeking an alternative "white knight" buyer. On its face, Alcan's pursuit of Pechiney makes sense. Along with the economy, the aluminium business has been in a slump; consolidation is in order. Alcan has yet to raise its bid, but is expected to do so. It has been playing to French pride, and to French unions' aversion to job cuts. Full-page ads in Le Figaro argue for the deal by highlighting Alcan's long history in France and the Quebecois firm's "francophone culture".So how will the EU's antitrust watchdogs respond this time? In the years since Alcan's 1999 bid, the team headed by Mario Monti, the competition commissioner, has been buffeted by a series of successful legal challenges to its merger-blocking decisions. In one case, the European Court of First Instance declared baldly that the European Commission's merger analysis was "vitiated by a series of errors of assessment."Whether this will be enough to make it go easy on today's deals remains to be seen. Alec Burnside of Linklaters, a law firm, thinks that the commission is likely "to bounce back and show that the system still has teeth". Already, it is looking hard at a bid by GE, which it once stopped from buying Honeywell, for Instrumentarium, a Finnish medical-equipment maker. The commission will certainly worry about the risk of collusion in a consolidated aluminium industry--a realistic fear in an industry already more integrated than for other metals, says Magnus Ericsson of Raw Materials Group, a consultancy.On the other hand, Alcan has learned from its earlier rebuff. It has come up with a plan to shed assets in Germany to pacify the commission. Moreover, its bid will be helped by the continuing pain in the industry, deriving in part from growing competition from aluminium suppliers in China and Russia. This new competition makes it harder to believe that a merged firm would wield excessive market power.In the end, the decision may rest with Pechiney's shareholders and, above all, its executives. If they try to construct an elaborate defence on antitrust grounds, perhaps the bid can be blocked. But this would probably be victory at a price: Pechiney might prevent itself from making any future acquisitions of its own.