America's steel industryConsolidate or liquidateEPANot such a hot businessTHE news that some of America's biggest steel companies are discussing consolidation sent the beleaguered shares of these distressed companies sharply higher this week. US Steel, the largest integrated steel maker, and Bethlehem Steel, the number two, have confirmed their involvement in the talks. Three other companies--National Steel, LTV and WHX, which owns Wheeling-Pittsburgh--are widely believed to be listening carefully.It would be reasonable to assume that investors reacted positively to the news because they see benefits from mergers in an industry swamped with capacity and suffering from losses. The most costly plants would be closed, inept managers pushed aside, price-cutting stopped, and so on. Something similar is afoot in Europe, where three big producers are merging to form a new giant. But in fact, it is the footnote to the American companies' discussions that produced most enthusiasm.As they consolidate, steel manufacturers are asking the Bush administration to strengthen import barriers, which would help a bit, and to take over some of the industry's enormous health-care and pension costs for retirees, which would help a lot. There could also be a redrafting of labour contracts, evolved over a century of often-bloody negotiations. "The industry as a whole is not uncompetitive," says Paul Vastola, an analyst at Standard & Poor's, a rating agency. "Its problems are a function of high labour and legacy costs."Without change, the future of every American steel company is in question, except perhaps for Nucor, a non-unionised mini-mill operator. The heart of the industry grew up in the early 20th century, employing vast armies of workers in the 1940s and 1950s. In the numerous painful cuts that followed, companies radically contracted. At US Steel there is now one active employee for every five pensioners, and the ratio elsewhere is even worse.The existence of huge liabilities, often not fully disclosed, has done more than anything to block consolidation. It has also felled some big producers. In October Bethlehem Steel filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy. LTV filed for bankruptcy late last year and will soon appear before a court to advocate a liquidation. "Ironically," says Bethlehem's chief executive, Robert Miller, "the devastation we are witnessing may have created the window of opportunity to once and for all fix what has been a recurring problem."