America's steel industryTrouble on the CuyahogaTHE great blast furnaces have fallen silent at the Cleveland works. Men in hard hats hammer boards to building windows. Truckloads of coke lie abandoned on the banks of the Cuyahoga river, soaking up the winter rain. This proud, blue-collar city is in shock. A bitter fight to save LTV, a big, old-fashioned steel maker, has failed. Thousands of workers have lost their jobs. Tens of thousands of pensioners will lose health-care benefits.LTV filed for bankruptcy a year ago. At first, there was hope that it might be saved. Dennis Kucinich, a local Democratic congressman, proposed a grand coalition to save the company. Mr Kucinich even took to hugging William Bricker, the plain-spoken Texan brought in to restructure LTV. And the United Steelworkers of America, whose relationship with LTV had been about the worst in the industry, seemed ready to cut a deal. A year later, LTV's drama ended with Mr Bricker run out of town and 400 forlorn steelworkers camped in tents in Washington, DC, begging for a government rescue. On the face of it, the company is one more victim of a flood of cheap imported steel that has, since 1997, helped to push 29 American steel companies into bankruptcy. US Steel, one of the few big, old-line steel makers still out of the courts, has offered to consolidate the industry, initially by merging with Bethlehem Steel, another big producer. First, however, US Steel wants government money, protection from imports and concessions from the union. What happened at LTV sheds light on the prospects for such a plan. The first signs of trouble came in the spring of 2001, when Mr Bricker put his plan to revise LTV's labour contract to high-ranking union officials. Mr Bricker wanted to cut $800m from annual overheads. Unionised labour accounted for one-third of LTV's costs. "You couldn't really walk around the problem," says Mark Tomasch, LTV's spokesman. At first, Mr Bricker left wages untouched. But he wanted to shift the unionised workforce into a managed health-care scheme (to which white-collar workers already belonged) and to cut pensioners' health-care benefits, which cost the company $160m a year, by half. The union gave ground on some issues, but refused to budge on pensioner benefits, fearing that it would have to make concessions with other steel makers too. LTV's problems were typical of the entire industry's: 7,500 workers supported the health-care costs of 50,000 pensioners. Talks broke down, and the union struck a deal instead with unsecured creditors. Pensioner benefits were preserved, although 1,300 jobs would go, so long as LTV secured a $250m government-guaranteed loan available under a special federal programme. Mr Bricker did not think the cost savings were enough, but with nothing else on the table, LTV agreed to pursue the deal and the loan. Crucially, however, the government wanted the banks to declare that LTV had a reasonable chance of repaying the loan. At this point, the economy, and the steel market, took another lurch downwards. Prices for a ton of hot-rolled steel were nudging $200, down from $350 only 16 months earlier. On September 27th, the banks gave their judgment: it was "highly unlikely" that LTV would repay.  What happened next is violently disputed. The union says the management pulled the plug on the company, and worked duplicitously to frustrate further deals. Reporters at The Plain Dealer, a local newspaper, along with officials at City Hall and most of Cleveland have largely bought the union's story. When Mr Bricker filed to liquidate LTV on November 20th, emotions were running high. Amid rumours that LTV planned to "cold idle" the plant--shut it down in a way that would make restarting it prohibitively expensive--Mr Kucinich sought a court injunction. Michael White, Cleveland's mayor, threatened criminal and civil action against LTV management. "We will not stand by and allow this city to be raped by greedy men who will sacrifice the lives of hardworking men and women in pursuit of the almighty buck," said Mr White. Leo Gerard, the union's president, called LTV management "reckless and irresponsible". Bankruptcy-court documents filed by LTV (made under the threat of perjury) tell a different story. With the market so much worse, Mr Bricker had decided by October that his previous plan did not go far enough; only a deep cut in wages could secure the loan and perhaps save LTV. He met the union on November 1st. But the union would not discuss details until the banks had approved the new plan. They did so on November 8th. A second meeting was set for November 14th, but the union postponed negotiations until November 19th. This was a day before the company had to reach a decision on liquidation, as it was almost out of cash. At that meeting, the two sides failed to agree. At 7pm that night the board, including its union representative, voted unanimously to liquidate. At no point did the company consider a cold idle. One week later, the union returned with another deal, negotiated not with the management but with the unsecured creditors. This deal still fell short of the cost-savings that the management wanted and the banks had rubber-stamped. But LTV agreed to take it to the banks. Then, rumours of a cold idle surfaced, legal threats flew and Mr Bricker fled to Texas, taking with him what was left of his $1m bonus. "The city would have tarred and feathered him if it could," says one Clevelander. The unavoidable conclusion is that the union trashed managers in Cleveland to disguise its sacrifice of jobs and health-care benefits of members there to protect wages and benefits elsewhere. Lower-cost foreign steel makers have a quarter of the American market. Minimill operators such as Nucor, built on modern, flexible, non-unionised labour, have another quarter, and continue to take market share. All bankrupt steel companies have something in common, says Mark Parr of McDonald Investments, a local investment bank: the United Steelworkers of America. Even in bankruptcy, LTV could not get the cost cuts it needed. US Steel will find it even harder. The union, however, refuses to accept that it must carry part of the burden of reform. President Bush is close to agreeing import quotas and tariffs on foreign steel, it says, and the emergency loan could have been secured with the right effort. However, in most parts of America, unionised steel is a curiosity, destined, seemingly irreversibly, for the history books.