Anglo AmericanMissed opportunityON HER appointment in 2007 it might have seemed that Cynthia Carroll marked a change of direction for Anglo American. She was everything the London-based mining giant's previous bosses were not. The firm had hitherto been run by South African men. She was American, and that rare sight at the head of a huge global company: a woman. But the firm's direction during here tenure was down, despite the unprecedented boom for mining companies that feed China's vast needs for resources. On 26th October Mrs Carroll announced that she is stepping down as Anglo's chief executive.Anglo is often compared to Rio Tinto and BHP Billiton, two other giant mining companies. They also got new bosses at around the same time as Mrs Carroll took over at Anglo. But whereas Anglo's share price has since fallen by 7%, Rio's has risen by 40% and BHP's even doubled. Anglo has not performed as terribly as the numbers suggest, but recent events have strengthened the opinion among some shareholders that the firm's problems have not been fixed. One factor is Anglo exposure to South Africa. Recent violent strikes by workers at its platinum mines in the country have served to remind investors just how dependent Anglo is on the region: nearly half its businesses are located there. Fears that the country might nationalise its mining industry are far-fetched, but the possibility has weighed on Anglo's share price. Indeed, Mrs Carroll has done much to improve relations with the country's leaders. Anglo has also stumbled in efforts to diversify and consolidate its businesses. Minas Rio, a Brazilian iron ore business that Anglo bought at the top of the commodity cycle, has suffered from multiple setbacks. Burdensome Brazilian bureaucracy and mounting costs have conspired to delay Minas's mining projects and Anglo's ability to take advantage of sky-high iron ore prices before a slowing Chinese economy sent them tumbling. The pricey acquisition of 40% of the De Beers diamond business, a damaging dispute with Codelco, Chile's state-owned mining company, and a failure to divest its 80% stake in the Amplats platinum business have also hurt Mrs Carroll's reputation. Rumours had long swirled that Mrs Carroll time at the top of Anglo was coming to an end. Some put that down to sniping at an outsider and a woman to boot. There may be some truth in that. But the main reason was Anglo's sliding ranking among mining's behemoths. Xstrata, a mining firm that grew rapidly after its founding just a decade ago, even cheekily suggested a nil-premium merger with Anglo in 2009. Plenty of analysts now think that this would not have been a bad idea.Anglo simply seems to have failed to take advantage of a commodities boom the like of which the world has never seen before. As China's economy cools and commodity prices fall from extraordinary peaks, Anglo's next boss will have a tough job boosting the firm's fortunes.