Anglo American's restructuringLight at the end of the shaft for AngloHALF-year profits more than doubled, and a share price boosted by well over 40% over the past year, should count as something of a triumph for any company. On Friday July 30th Anglo American said it had made operating profits of $4.1 billion in the six months to the end of June, up from $1.9 billion in the previous year (when net profits were flattered by the profitable sale of shares in a gold miner). The firm will also reinstate its dividend after a two-year break.Sir John Parker, Anglo's chairman, boasted that a corporate reorganisation had been carried out "superbly and on time". Cynthia Carroll, the chief executive, talked up the company's pipeline of projects in Latin America, despite the delays it is suffering in getting planning and environmental permits at Minas Rio, a proposed iron-ore mine in Brazil. But before bosses at Anglo start trumpeting their growth prospects and restructuring achievements too loudly, it is worth remembering the pit that the mining giant was in a year ago.Anglo, in business since 1917 and once the world's second-largest mining company, had seen its fortunes reverse to such an extent that in June 2009 Xstrata, a company born in 2001, proposed a nil-premium merger. As Anglo's stock had fallen Xstrata's had risen, to make both worth roughly the same. Anglo rapidly sent the young upstart packing. But it was a clear sign that Anglo was vulnerable to a takeover.Xstrata's impudent offer at last concentrated the minds of Anglo's bosses on completing a long-promised restructuring. Since then Ms Carroll--with the backing of Sir John, a tough new chairman who admits to regarding Genghis Khan as a bit soft--has made good progress on cutting costs. As over 23,000 ex-employees (mainly managers) bear witness, the company is halfway to making savings of $2 billion a year by 2011. And Anglo recently sold its zinc business to Vedanta, an Indian mining company, for $1.3 billion.Cutting diamondsAnglo still has other assets it must get rid of, to concentrate on the business of selling profitable bulk commodities to China. It still owns Tarmac, a building-materials company, though it sold some of the European parts of the business in February. Anglo also needs to decide on the long-term future of its 45% stake in the De Beers diamond business.Anglo could attempt to take full control of De Beers. BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto, two rivals that have sped ahead of Anglo in recent years, both fully own small diamond businesses. Or it could spin off the company. De Beers unveiled surprisingly good results on July 23rd: the diamond business is in recovery as the rich world pulls out of recession. But Anglo was forced to pay its share of a $1 billion capital injection into De Beers earlier this year, cash it might have put to better use elsewhere. Even a buoyant diamond business cannot match the return that can be earned on the commodities, such as iron ore, coal and copper, that China craves.A sale of the De Beers stake would doubtless meet opposition from the Oppenheimer family, which owns 40% and commands a fat management fee for running the company. Botswana, a success story as African countries go, derives much of its income from diamond mining and would not give up its 15% stake in De Beers. But a new mood of openness at this hitherto secretive company hints at a more public future.Out of AfricaAnother worry for Anglo's investors is the company's disproportionate presence in Africa, a continent where the risk of political upheaval weighs heavily on the value of mining assets. Some 40% of Anglo's businesses are in South Africa, where shortages of electricity, water and skilled workers cause headaches. Bank of America Merrill Lynch recently published a note suggesting the company split its South African and international businesses to allow the latter to flourish. But other analysts reckon investors are wrong to be quite so fearful of Africa. Indeed, Anglo's presence in Africa and experience operating on the continent could even prove an advantage. The rest of the world is running out of the kind of vast new projects that big mining companies need to keep growing; Africa is still chock-full of them.