Architecture Billings Up Again, Morgan Stanley Slashes its Nickel Price ForecastArchitecture billings increased in May, while Morgan Stanley changed its forecast for nickel prices to a more bearish outlook.Led by growing demand for new schools, hospitals, cultural facilities and municipal buildings, the Architecture Billings Index (ABI) increased in May following its second monthly drop this year. As an economic indicator of construction activity, the ABI reflects an approximate nine to 12 month lead time between architecture billings and construction spending. The American Institute of Architects (AIA) reported the May ABI score was 51.9, up from a mark of 48.8 in April. This score reflects an increase in design services (any score above 50 indicates an increase in billings).Free Webinar: Are You Speculating When You Buy Spot Metals?"As has been the case for the past several years, while the design and construction industry has been in a recovery phase, we continue to receive mixed signals on business conditions in the marketplace," said AIA Chief Economist Kermit Baker, Hon. AIA, PhD. "Generally, the business climate is favorable, but there are still construction sectors and regions of the country that are struggling, producing the occasional backslide in the midst of what seems to be growing momentum for the entire industry."Morgan Stanley slashed its nickel price forecasts for the second half of the year Tuesday as demand from stainless steel producers continues to be undermined by a deteriorating outlook for global growth. The bank cut its third quarter 2015 nickel price forecast by 12% to $13,228 a metric ton; and its fourth quarter outlook by 10% to $13,448 a metric ton.Free Download: Latest Metal Price Trends in the June MMI ReportYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service