AustraliaIs there life after steelFEW people in Newcastle can remember life without Broken Hill Proprietary (BHP). The "big Australian", as Australia's largest company calls itself, started making steel there in 1915, barely a century after the region was settled as a penal colony. For 82 years, Newcastle has been largely a company city, where life for generations of families has revolved around the gargantuan steelworks sprawled along the banks of the Hunter River.In late April, BHP announced that it would stop making steel in Newcastle from 1999. Understandably, the city has talked of little ever since. Almost 3,000 people will lose their jobs when the Newcastle plant stops making steel; another 3,000 jobs linked to the plant could go, in a city where unemployment, at 12%, is already four points above the Australian average. Many of those laid off will be middle-aged men who have worked at BHP since they stepped off ships as immigrants from Europe 30 years ago. They will be hard-pressed to find new work. A sign scrawled in chalk outside the Church of Christ in Mayfield, the main suburb feeding the steelworks, says "Jesus Fixes BHP, Broken Hearted People". If Newcastle's heart is broken, the view beyond the city is more hard-headed. BHP began life in the 1880s on the fortunes of giant silver, lead and zinc deposits at Broken Hill in New South Wales. It has grown into an international company, producing minerals, steel and petroleum, and accounting for about 8% of Australia's exports. Some people see implications in the decision of such a company to close Australia's oldest steel plant that are not just local. They say it is indicative of the effect of stiffer global competition on the Australian economy as a whole--even a sign that Australia may be reverting to its traditional role as a supplier of raw commodities to other countries.Newcastle felt its first big jolt during a world steel slump in 1982. Since then, BHP has spent A$5 billion ($3.8 billion) upgrading its steel operations. Jobs were shed and productivity more than trebled. It was not enough to stave off the day of reckoning. The Newcastle works still could not compete with cheaper producers abroad and lost A$30m in the nine months to last February. BHP will continue turning out rod and bar steel products from Newcastle after 1999, but the steel for them will be made at one of its other plants, at Whyalla, in South Australia.Some people are already wondering whether BHP wants to end steel-making in Australia altogether. The theory is that the company is looking at setting up a chain of low-cost mini-mills in Asia, though it says it has no such plans at the moment.Flinty-faced financiers have welcomed BHP's decision to close the Newcastle plant; trade unionists are predictably dismayed. They argue that the company's decision is short-sighted and reflects the failings of managers, not workers.Studies carried out by the University of Newcastle claim that the closure of the local steel plant will cost Australia A$750m-worth of exports a year, and will add to the country's current-account deficit. It will not, however, be the death of the town. Thriving coal and wine industries in the adjacent Hunter valley, a busy port and an expanding university will give Newcastle the makings of a new life to sustain it after the steel furnaces belch their last smoke.