Australia's resource taxShaftedHIGH commodities prices should mean happiness for the mining industry. Instead, they spell vulnerability. On May 2nd Australia, the industry's largest source of many minerals, proposed a new, 40% tax on what it defines as "super profits". A decline in the price of Australian mining shares that began in April, as word of the new tax emerged, accelerated sharply (see chart). Some fear that other governments could follow suit.Squeezing natural-resources firms is hardly unprecedented--even in Australia itself, which imposed a surcharge on oil exploration decades ago during a prior boom. The politics are appealing. Natural resources are seen by many as a national patrimony, meaning all profits should be shared. Kevin Rudd, Australia's prime minister, noted that hefty chunks of two big mining companies with listings in Australia, Rio Tinto and BHP Billiton, are held by foreign shareholders. That, said Mr Rudd, means a lot of benefits from Australian resources have gone to non-Australians. It helps too that supporters of the Labor government do not live in Western Australia, where the country's big mineral deposits are located and the taxes will be paid.The economics of the new tax are trickier. Because mining firms comprise a large slice of the Australian stockmarket, the decline has had a big impact on other investors too. The very fact that the government can impose a special tax on one industry will have investors worried about similar measures being applied elsewhere. That should, in theory at least, mean they will charge higher costs for their funding.As for the mining companies themselves, they have little choice about where to operate but they will inevitably reorganise their financial structures to be tax-efficient. That would mean shifting more costs into Australian operations to depress reported profits. It may also mean that miners alter their capital structures to put more emphasis on debt, which is tax-deductible, rather than equity. If so, increases in leverage would increase their vulnerability to swings in commodity prices. The outright impact of the tax, along with how it is applied (notably whether projects with losses can be netted against projects with gains), could have a severe impact on the Australian resource sector, says Ray Ball, a professor at the University of Chicago's Booth School of Business and a scathing critic of similar measures back in 1984. At least one deal, a bid by Peabody Energy for Macarthur Coal, was being reassessed after this week's announcement.The Rudd government argues that investment will not be impeded because the tax is applied to profits beyond what is necessary to fund reinvestment--likely to be a rate lower than the government-bond yield plus five percentage points. That has the potential to inspire furious debate beyond mining. The claim that a fair rate of return can be set by fiat, rather than the market, for an industry that is prone to booms and busts has obvious appeal elsewhere. The IMF's proposals for new bank taxes already nod towards the idea of creaming off excess profits. Miners may be miserable now, but banks also have reason to worry about events down under. 