Australian politicsSnap to itSay no to ChristmasSINCE she unseated Kevin Rudd as Australia's prime minister late in June, Julia Gillard has moved swiftly to shore up the ruling Labor Party's crumbling support. Promising to "speak plainly" (which Mr Rudd never quite managed), Ms Gillard has spent her first three weeks reinventing three policies that had landed her predecessor with disastrous poll ratings: a "resources super-profits tax" on mining; measures to stop asylum-seekers arriving by boat in northern Australia; and action against climate change.The polls have bounced back to give Labor a tight lead over the conservative coalition opposition (see chart). Under pressure to win a second term that party bosses had thought beyond Mr Rudd's reach, Ms Gillard may now bring forward to August an election otherwise due late this year.She might be wise to make use of her political honeymoon. Ms Gillard has shaken up a country where married men have always led federal (but not state) governments. At 48, without children and with a partner who stays in the background, her domestic choices have not hobbled her rise. This week, nonetheless, she gave a speech aimed at reassuring families in middle Australia. Her Welsh-immigrant parents, she said, taught her the value of hard work and education. She has also vowed to make the cost of school uniforms tax deductible, saying that they give pupils "a sense of discipline".Such efforts help to change her old image as a left-wing radical. So, too, will the deal on tax that she struck with BHP Billiton, Rio Tinto and Xstrata, Australia's three biggest mining companies. In May Mr Rudd said that a 40% tax would be levied on mining profits above a certain level. That now falls to 30% (lower, on some calculations) and applies only to iron ore and coal. At first the government claimed that this change would shave only A$1.5 billion ($1.3 billion) from the estimated A$12 billion revenue that the tax would earn in its first two years. But on July 14th officials conceded that, unless commodity prices keep rising, losses will be much greater.Next Ms Gillard set out a plan for a "regional centre" in Timor-Leste (East Timor) to process asylum-seekers. So far this year, authorities have stopped 79 boats with 3,768 refugees, mostly Afghans, 1,000 more than in all of 2009; most are processed at Christmas Island, an Australian territory. The relatively small numbers have sent jitters through some marginal constituencies, encouraged by tabloid alarm and opposition calls to "turn the boats back".But Ms Gillard's bid to sound tough on this does not ring entirely true. Critics recall how, eight years ago, she condemned as "a costly and unsustainable farce" the former conservative government's "Pacific Solution" of dumping asylum-seekers on island neighbours. Nor is Timor-Leste keen: on July 12th the parliament in Dili voted against the plan.Ms Gillard also faces the problem of showing that the government is still serious about tackling climate change. Mr Rudd's misfortunes began in April, when he dropped a proposed emissions-trading scheme. Still, voters might be distracted by some cheery economic news. This week Wayne Swan, the Treasurer, said the budget will return to a surplus of A$3 billion in 2013, triple the forecast in May. And unemployment is down to 5.1%. The trumpeting of such figures may indeed suggest an election campaign is not far off. 