Berthold BeitzThe compassionate steel baronGERMANY's great and good will gather on September 26th at the Villa Hugel, the 269-room mansion which used to be the Krupp family pile in the city of Essen, to celebrate what would have been Berthold Beitz's 100th birthday. Sadly, the grand old man of German industry, who since 1967 had done more to further Krupp family interests than any member of the clan, will not be there: he died on July 30th.Mr Beitz was the last great German industrial baron. He was also respected as a German who saved Jews from deportation by the Nazis during the second world war. Born in 1913 the son of a civil servant, he did a banking apprenticeship before joining an oil company, a subsidiary of Shell, in 1938. Four years later he was managing oil interests in occupied Poland. There he risked his life rescuing hundreds of Jews from deportation, insisting that he needed them as workers (as did Oskar Schindler in Nazi-occupied Bohemia). The Holocaust memorial centre Yad Vashem honoured Mr Beitz as "righteous among nations" in 1973.After the war Mr Beitz was the driving force behind the steel concern Friedrich Krupp, which after two big mergers now trades as ThyssenKrupp. He met Alfried Krupp, the great great-grandson of the founder, by chance in 1953. Within a year he was his trusted general manager at the family firm. Yet his real power came after Alfried's death in 1967, as chairman of the Alfried Krupp von Bohlen und Halbach Foundation, which controls the family interests and today still has a blocking 25.3% stake in ThyssenKrupp and can appoint three members to the supervisory board.Mr Beitz steered the firm through its darkest days in 1967, when banks would not lend to it without government support. In 1973 he brought in the Iranian monarchy as a 25% shareholder. He was less a visionary, more of a principled player, acting in the interests of the family and the business ethics they espoused. Shareholder value was less important than the general good of all stakeholders. But he did agree, in 1987, to close a historic steelworks at Rheinhausen, with the loss of thousands of jobs.From that time until earlier this year his right-hand man was Gerhard Cromme, first as chief executive and then as chairman of the evolving concern. Mr Cromme took Krupp through mergers with Hoesch and Thyssen. He was also Mr Beitz's heir-apparent at the Krupp foundation. Together they saw ThyssenKrupp flourish, especially in the early years of last decade.But earlier this year some terrible business decisions came home to roost: billions misspent on greenfield factories in Brazil and North America, and ThyssenKrupp's involvement in a steel railway track pricing cartel. Even Mr Beitz could see that Mr Cromme had to fall on his sword. That left a vacuum, more at the foundation than at ThyssenKrupp. Whoever succeeds Mr Beitz there will continue to call the shots at the firm--and will loom large in German industry. 