Best of 2017 Best Aluminum Posts of the Year, From 232 to ChinaAluminum featured heavily in our top 10 most-viewed posts of 2017 -- but there were plenty of other aluminum articles of note here on MetalMiner.Benchmark Your Current Metal Price by Grade, Shape and Alloy: See How it Stacks UpHere is an additional sampling of some of our writings on aluminum here throughout the year:"Aluminum Batteries Close to Commercial Success." Our Stuart Burns wrote about the application of aluminum for use in batteries -- which, as he explained, is another example of the metal's versatility."Part of Aluminum Stockpile Seized; US Opens WTO Case Against Chinese Aluminum." It was a year of big trade disputes, from beginning to end."Aluminum Execs Talk 232 Investigation, Chinese Excess Capacity." Speaking of trade cases, Section 232 was the talk of the metals industry for most of 2017."How Much Can US Aluminum Prices, Premiums Rise This Year?" Want a look back a the aluminum outlook for the year? This January post proved to be popular with readers."How Representative is China Hongqiao, the Nation's Largest Aluminum Producer, of its Peers?" Burns wrote about Hongqiao, the largest aluminum producer in China, earlier this year."Is Goldman Sachs Too Bullish on Aluminum?" In the spring, Goldman Sachs predicted aluminum would break through the $2,000/mt mark this year (LME aluminum crossed that threshold in early September)."Indian Aluminum Production to Rise to Meet Domestic Demand, Report Says." India's aluminum production was expected to grow at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 3.5% in the next 2-3 years to cater to a rise in domestic demand, according to a report earlier this year."Aluminum Prices Climb Slowly but Surely as China Begins its Pollution Crackdown." China, pollution and capacity cuts were a consistent theme in the world of aluminum this year."U.S. Aluminum Industry Strikes at Chinese Overcapacity During 232 Hearing." Speaking of consistent themes, Section 232 and Chinese imports were a constant focus of the domestic industry."KPMG Report Paints Bright Picture for Future of Non-Ferrous Metals in India." KPMG released a report this fall that predicted significant non-ferrous metals growth in India.Free Sample Report: Our Annual Metal Buying OutlookYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service