BHP Billiton and Rio TintoFinancial prospectingIN THE aftermath of the second oil shock at the end of the 1970s, as prices rose and new oil became harder to find, it was often said that the best place to drill for oil was in the canyons of Wall Street. Such thinking led to a wave of consolidation in the next 20 years. Now the mining and steel industries are following the same path as soaring demand and prices provide the bigger companies in both fields with the means and the incentive to buy their rivals. The latest, biggest example is the $360 billion merger proposal made by BHP Billiton, an Anglo-Australian firm that is the world's biggest mining company, to Rio Tinto, the industry's number three.The steel-industry mergers of the past couple of years, notably the multinational Mittal group's takeover of Arcelor, a European steel giant, and the acquisition of Corus, an Anglo-Dutch firm, by Tata Steel of India, were both driven by booming demand from China and India. The steelmakers wanted to increase their scale and hence their bargaining power with the mining companies that sell them ore, which were raising prices as a result of demand from Chinese steelmakers. That demand has also driven up mining companies' share prices, enabling the big firms to buy smaller ones. This summer, Rio Tinto snapped up Alcan, a Canadian aluminium producer, for $38 billion. But BHP Billiton's offer for Rio Tinto, announced on November 8th, takes consolidation to a new level. It would be one of the biggest mergers in history. The move had been rumoured for months, and came just six weeks after the appointment of BHP Billiton's new chief executive, Marius Kloppers. Rio Tinto's shares briefly leapt by 30% after it rejected the bid, as investors waited eagerly for a better offer.On November 12th Mr Kloppers spelled out the details of his plan. Three BHP Billiton shares would be offered for each Rio Tinto share, putting a premium of 28% on the latter's recent value. He also revealed a scheme to sweeten the deal for Rio's shareholders, who would own 41% of the combined entity, through a $30 billion share buy-back on completion of the merger. This repurchase seems to be aimed largely at Rio's London-listed shares. If it is accepted, one effect would be to keep about half the merged company's shareholder base in Australia--potentially an important consideration for competition authorities there. For the moment, there is no talk of a hostile approach.The business logic of the deal outlined by Mr Kloppers includes synergies worth as much as $3.7 billion a year within seven years. Not all of these benefits would flow from removing head-office duplication and overlapping operations such as mines and the railways linking them to ports. About $2 billion a year is expected to come from a higher throughput of minerals. Together, the argument goes, the two companies could better direct scarce resources to extract iron, copper, nickel and so on where the most value is to be gained, and do so faster than they could individually. Mr Kloppers was careful to deny that one aim of the merger was to gain additional pricing power. But the Australians hate their status as mere quarrymasters to Asian industry and are in the middle of a round of negotiations with China's steelmakers. Iron-ore prices have tripled in the past five years. If the merged group controlled 40% of the world market for iron ore, might prices not rise even faster in future? The merged firm would also be dominant in aluminium, uranium and coking coal. Antitrust enforcers may well insist on disposals as a result. They may also point out that mergers are no substitute for finding new reserves--an activity the mining giants have neglected in recent years.