Big steel, big mergersEPANow the sparks will flyEVEN for an "old economy" business, steel making has evolved at the pace of a dinosaur. Now the world's biggest steel maker is being created by the merger of three European firms. The merger, led by France's Usinor, is designed to deliver some badly needed consolidation: steel making is a remarkably parochial and fragmented industry which is in desperate need of global firms.Usinor hopes to complete its merger with Arbed of Luxembourg and Aceralia of Spain by the autumn. The deal, which was announced on February 19th, will produce a group with combined annual sales of nearly EUR30 billion ($27 billion) and an annual output of some 45m tonnes of steel. The new firm is to be known initially by the snazzy name of NewCo (these are steel makers, remember, not dotcommers). At a single leap, NewCo will surpass South Korea's Pohang Iron and Steel and Japan's Nippon Steel, which have long vied to be the top producers (see chart). In a business in which economies of scale matter, NewCo will be able to make plenty of cost savings. But it will still produce less than 6% of the world's annual output of 800m tonnes of steel. Although it has often been replaced by lighter and more fashionable substances, steel remains a vitally important material in manufacturing. While steel is expensive and heavy to export, more of it is now crossing national borders than ever before. However, most steel is still made by national companies close to their main customers, such as car makers and the producers of domestic appliances, even though most of those customers have long since become multinationals. Steel makers have been hobbled in responding to the globalisation of manufacturing because they have been protected by governments, often directly through state ownership and as instruments of industrial policy, or indirectly because politicians have feared the huge job losses involved when unprofitable steel plants are closed down. The main producers mostly operate big, integrated plants which turn iron ore into steel. These plants represent huge investments, take years to build and need to sell enormous quantities of steel to be viable. Yet, the monoliths have increasingly seen large parts of their business taken away by the operators of so-called mini-mills, which are mostly fed by scrap; steel is an eminently recyclable product. The mini-mills are smaller, cheaper and faster to set up. The result of these trends is chronic over-capacity: demand for steel is growing at around 2% a year but production continues to increase at about 7%. Predictably, prices for steel have fallen dramatically (see chart).These tough operating conditions are behind the mergers which have begun to take place in Europe. In 1999, the German steel makers Thyssen and Krupp merged, and in the same year British Steel and Hoogovens of the Netherlands came together to form Corus. The latest merger is effectively a takeover by Usinor, the largest of the three firms involved, and whose shareholders will end up owning 56.5% of the combined group. NewCo will have its shares listed in Paris, Brussels, Madrid and Luxembourg (where it will maintain its headquarters). The rationale behind the merger is cost savings, mostly from the closing of inefficient sites. NewCo expects these to reach EUR700m annually by 2006. The formation of the new group, which will have to be approved by the European Union, is likely to provoke further cutbacks in the industry and the possibility of more mergers: Corus recently announced plans to slash its production capacity. American producers are facing a particularly tough time as well as suffering from huge pension and environmental liabilities which reduce their attractiveness as takeover candidates. America used to be the world's biggest steel market but it has since been overtaken by China. During the 1997-98 Asian financial crisis, America was flooded by steel imports from Asia. These have eased since the Asian recovery, but steel prices in America have still fallen to a 20-year low. LTV, America's third-largest steel maker, filed for Chapter-11 bankruptcy on December 29th last year, the second time it has been forced to do so. The pressure for change is coming from two directions. While the ten-biggest steel makers account for only a quarter of the world market, their main suppliers and customers are far less fragmented and thus better able to set prices favourable to themselves. For instance, the three main iron-ore producers command some 70% of the market while half-a-dozen car makers make some three-quarters of all the world's vehicles. Like other manufacturers, the big car makers also operate globally: their plants in Asia, Europe and the Americas source similar products and increasingly demand the same grades of steel. Some steel makers are beginning to form strategic alliances with one another to better serve the interests of multinationals. On January 23rd Usinor signed a technology-sharing agreement with Nippon Steel so that it could improve its supply of car-making steel to Japanese car makers in Europe and, through a joint venture in the United States, to those in America too. An industry which still has its roots in the 19th century may be about to join the 21st.