Boeing and State of Washington Lose WTO Subsidy CaseSubsidies given by the U.S. state of Washington to Boeing are illegal under international trade rules derived from the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), the World Trade Organization said on Nov. 28.MetalMiner Price Benchmarking: Current and Historical Prices for the Metals You BuyIt was a victory for rival aircraft maker Airbus and the European Union. The ruling from a WTO panel is the latest blow in a drawn out trans-Atlantic battle between the aviation industry's two titans, which has seen both Airbus and Boeing score points along the way.In the decision, the WTO said that subsidies set up by Washington state to support production of Boeing's 777X commercial jet, were "prohibited" as they encouraged the use of domestic materials, fueling unfair trade distortions.The panel called  for the subsidies to be withdrawn within 90 days.Airbus was represented by the European Union in the case while the U.S . federal government fought for Boeing and Washington state because companies and regional authorities are not represented at the Geneva-based WTO.Tata Steel and Thyssenkrupp AG are looking at reducing the size of Britain's largest steel plant in Port Talbot, Wales, industry sources told Reuters, as the two firms press ahead with merger plans for their European steel operations. The plan would also deal with the overcapacity afflicting the industry.Two-Month Trial: Metal Buying OutlookThe move could see one of Port Talbot's two blast furnaces shut, halving the plant's capacity. Up to 4,000 people are employed at the site.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service