Business in UkraineSteel crazyWHY are the world's two biggest steelmakers, plus a host of smaller ones, still interested in bidding for Ukraine's Kryvorizhstal? The state-owned firm produces a hefty 20% of the country's steel output, making it a good entry point into one of the world's hitherto-protected steel industries; but the auction on June 11th, when a 93% stake will be offered at a starting price of 3.8 billion hryvnyas ($714m), is rigged so blatantly as to be a joke.Among the qualifying conditions announced earlier this month is the bizarrely precise one that any bidder must have produced at least 1m tonnes of coke and 2m tonnes of rolled steel in Ukraine for the past three years, two of them profitably. That rules out the foreign firms that long ago showed an interest--the world leader, Arcelor; the number two, LNM; US Steel; Russia's Severstal; and India's Tata Steel, which has said it would pay $1 billion for Kryvorizhstal. But it also rules out most Ukrainian bidders. And by giving them only a month to submit tenders, the government made the necessary due diligence, as well as any bid-qualifying tie-up by a foreign firm with a Ukrainian partner, virtually impossible.The auction seems designed to favour a consortium formed by two Ukrainian oligarchs, Rinat Akhmetov and Viktor Pinchuk. The latter just happens to be the son-in-law of the president, Leonid Kuchma. "Ukraine doesn't seem to care at all about how it's perceived," says Rob Edwards at Renaissance Capital, a Moscow investment bank. "For many people, Ukraine is still off the track as an investment destination."Such tactics, typical in former Soviet countries, usually deter foreigners from even bidding. But the Kryvorizhstal sale is both unusually big and unusually brazen. That has strengthened foreign resolve. Severstal and Arcelor said in April that they would join forces on the bid, which would let them attack through the courts in both Europe and America, where Severstal has a subsidiary; the Russian firm says that the tender contradicts investment agreements that Ukraine has with both Russia and America. LNM and US Steel, which already have several central and eastern European steel mills, this week announced that they will mount a joint bid too, while not sounding terribly optimistic.Such pressure, and protests from Ukraine's divided but boisterous opposition--last week even the parliament's speaker, Volodymyr Lytvyn, one of Mr Kuchma's proteges, added his voice--may shame the government into delaying the auction. But even if it does there will still be profit to be made from rigging privatisations: another 312 of them are slated for this year alone.