Business in South KoreaSteely logicPOSCO, a South Korean firm that is the world's fourth-largest steelmaker, likes to prove its critics wrong. It proudly points out that the World Bank refused to put money into the company when it was founded in 1968, saying South Korea would never be able to support a steel industry. But POSCO prospered and became the engine for the country's remarkable industrialisation. Now the company is trying to convince sceptics that it should buy the world's third-biggest shipbuilder, Daewoo Shipbuilding & Marine Engineering (DSME). A 50.4% stake in the company, worth $7 billion-8 billion, is up for sale.Prospective bidders had until August 27th to send letters of intent to Korea Development Bank, DSME's biggest shareholder, which owns a 31% stake and is also managing the sale. It is one of the last big asset sales by South Korea's state-owned financial institutions, which took over many companies during the economic collapse of the late 1990s. Since DSME makes submarines for South Korea's navy, the government is not allowing foreigners to bid on security grounds. Along with POSCO, other bidders include Hyundai Heavy Industries, the world's biggest shipbuilder; GS Group, a construction, energy and retail conglomerate; and Hanwha Group, an insurance and chemicals firm.POSCO's management has been planning the acquisition of DSME for a year. It has deep pockets, with up to $30 billion in credit lined up from its banks. It wants DSME to focus on building more technologically complex vessels, such as offshore oil-and-gas platforms and drilling ships, rather than oil tankers and dry-bulk vessels. And it thinks there is plenty of scope for cost savings. "In building a ship, the less you weld the less you spend," says Lee Ku-taek, POSCO's chief executive. "If we can tailor our ship plates to a specific ship, then costs can be saved."Mr Lee is in charge of a sprawling industrial empire. POSCO has controlling stakes in 20 domestic companies and 43 foreign firms. Its subsidiaries include South Korea's sixth-biggest construction firm, a power company and a computer-services provider. Mr Lee says he wants to increase sales from 42 trillion won ($38.8 billion) this year to 100 trillion won in 2018, and steel output from 35m to 50m tonnes.As well as planning to expand into shipbuilding, POSCO is looking out for opportunities to acquire steelmakers in Asia. It hopes to begin work soon on a 12m tonne steel-production plant in the Indian state of Orissa, where it also has mineral rights. And next year it hopes to complete the construction of a cold-rolling mill near Vietnam's Ho Chi Minh City, and an automotive steel-sheet plant in Mexico to supply General Motors and Hyundai Motor.Like other steelmakers, POSCO has sought to acquire mines to insulate itself from the commodity-price boom. The company has stakes in two iron-ore mines and seven coal mines in Australia, but says that prices of mines there and in Brazil make further investment in the two countries unlikely. Mr Lee says the firm is looking to buy mines in Africa, Siberia, Indonesia and Eastern Europe, and has a goal that 30% of its raw materials should be supplied by mines in which it has a stake.Previously, says Mr Lee, steelmakers competed on the basis of their products. "Companies with better technology had an edge," he says. "Now it has changed. Companies with mines have the advantage." Some investors, who are sceptical about POSCO's bid for DSME, agree. They would prefer POSCO to concentrate on buying access to raw materials, as its rivals are. Can the company prove its critics wrong once again? 