Carbon and Alloy Steel Plate Anti-Dumping Duties Finalized, Japan and France Hardest HitThe Department of Commerce today announced its affirmative final determinations that steel producers in Austria, Belgium, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the Republic of Korea (South Korea), and Taiwan are dumping imports of carbon and alloy steel plate in the U.S.Benchmark Your Current Steel Plate Price by Grade, Shape and Alloy: See How it Stacks UpMargins in the dumping investigations ranged from 3.62% to 148.02%, and were, in certain instances, based on adverse findings against non-cooperative responding parties. Commerce also determined that critical circumstances exist in three investigations, allowing for collection of duties for a retroactive period of 90 days before the preliminary determination, spanning back to August 16. Commerce also found that South Korea is providing unfair subsidies to its producers of steel plate at a countervailable duty rate of 4.31%. As a result of these final affirmative determinations, Commerce will instruct Customs and Border Protection to collect cash deposits based on these final rates."A healthy steel industry is critical to our economy and manufacturing base, yet our steel industry today is under assault from foreign producers that dump and subsidize their exports," Secretary of Commerce Wilbur Ross said in a press release about the new anti-dumping and countervailing duties. "After a thorough investigation, the Department of Commerce has found that exporters of steel plate have received government subsidies and sold at unfairly low prices in the United States. The Trump administration is unequivocally committed to the vigorous enforcement of America's trade laws, including the finding of critical circumstances and the retroactive collection of duties when appropriate. We will ensure U.S. businesses and workers are treated fairly."The International Trade Commission is scheduled to make its final injury determinations on or about May 15.In the Austria investigation, Commerce found that dumping has occurred by the sole mandatory respondent Bohler Edelstahl GmbH & Co KG, Bohler Bleche GmbH & Co KG, Bohler International GmbH, Voestalpine Grobblech GmbH, and Voestalpine Steel Service Center GmbH (collectively, Voestalpine) at a dumping margin of 53.72%. Commerce calculated a dumping margin of 53.72% for all other producers/exporters in Austria.In the Belgium investigation, Commerce found that dumping has occurred by mandatory respondent Industeel Belgium S.A. at a final dumping margin of 5.40%. Additionally, Commerce
established a dumping margin of 51.78%, based on adverse facts available, for mandatory
respondent NLMK Clabecq S.A., NLMK Plate Sales S.A., NLMK Sales Europe S.A., NLMK 
Manage Steel Center S.A., and NLMK La Louviere S.A. (collectively, NLMK Belgium). Commerce calculated a dumping margin of 5.40% for all other producers/exporters in Belgium.In the France investigation, Commerce found that dumping has occurred by mandatory respondent
Dillinger France S.A.at a final dumping margin of 8.62%. Additionally, Commerce established a dumping margin of 148.02%, based on adverse facts available, for mandatory respondent Industeel France S.A. Commerce calculated a dumping margin of 8.62% for all other producers/exporters in France.In the Germany investigation, Commerce found that dumping has occurred by mandatory respondent AG der Dillinger Huttenwerke at a final dumping margin of 5.38%, and dumping occurred by respondent Ilsenburger Grobblech GmbH, Salzgitter Mannesmann Grobblech GmbH, Salzgitter Flachstahl GmbH, and Salzgitter Mannesmann International GmbH (collectively, Salzgitter) at a final dumping margin of 22.90%.Commerce calculated a dumping margin of 21.03% for all other producers/exporters in Germany.In the Italy investigation, Commerce found that dumping occurred by mandatory respondent
Officine Tecnosiders.r.l. at a final dumping margin of 6.08%. Additionally, commerce established a dumping margin of 22.19%, based on adverse facts available, for mandatory respondents Marcegaglia SpA and NLMK Verona SpA. Commerce calculated a dumping margin of 6.08% for all other producers/exporters in Italy.In the Japan investigation, Commerce found that dumping has occurred by mandatory respondent Tokyo Steel Manufacturing Co., Ltd., at a dumping margin of 14.79%. Additionally, commerce established a dumping margin of 48.67%, based on adverse facts available, for mandatory respondents JFE Steel Corporation and Shimabun Corporation. Commerce calculated a
dumping margin of 14.79% for all other producers/exporters in Japan.In the Korea anti-dumping investigation, commerce found that dumping has occurred by mandatory
respondent POSCO (formerly the Pohang Iron & Steel Corp.) at a dumping margin of 7.39%. Commerce calculated a dumping margin of 7.39% for all other producers/exporters in South Korea.
In accordance with the scope of the investigation, the application of POSCO's margin to all-
other producers/exporters applies only to subject CTL plate not within the description of cut-to-length carbon quality steel plate in the 1999 South Korea anti-dumping order.Two-Month Trial: Metal Buying OutlookIn the South Korea countervailing duties investigation, commerce calculated a subsidy rate
of 4.31%for POSCO and a subsidy rate of 4.31% for all other producers/exporters in the Republic of Korea.The countervailing duties margin's application is also subject CTL plate not within the 1999 order of the same.In the Taiwan investigation, commerce found that dumping has occurred by mandatory respondents
Shang Chen Steel Co., Ltd. and China Steel Corp. at dumping margins of 3.62% and
6.95%, respectively. Commerce calculated a dumping margin of 5.29% for all other
producers/exporters in Taiwan.Two-Month Trial: Metal Buying OutlookCritical circumstances were alleged with respect to imports of CTL plate from Austria, Belgium,
Italy, the Republic of Korea, and Taiwan.The petitioners are ArcelorMittal USA LLC in Illinois, Nucor Corporation in North Carolina and SSAB Enterprises in Ill.Which one of these petitioners are currently producing .187 thru .420 thick tool steel? To my knowledge, none of them. Tariffs and taxes are all great in theory, but if a domestic company cannot provide the quality product that the overseas companies can, what is the american manufacturer supposed to do? Buy an inferior product that not only costs more but has more peripheral costs associated with it? Companies are going to be forced to pay the duty to the government because the product American consumers are used to, is not available to purchase domestically.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service