Century Aluminum Announces Expansion at Sebree SmelterU.S. aluminum maker Century Aluminum announced last week it plans to expand production at its smelter in Sebree, Kentucky.Need buying strategies for steel? Request your two-month free trial of MetalMiner's OutlookThe Sebree smelter -- one of two Century Aluminum smelters in Kentucky, the other in Hawesville -- has an annual production capacity of 220,000 tons.Last week, the company announced its expansion plans would be completed by the end of the first quarter of 2019. According to the company announcement, the expansion includes the addition of 90,000 metric tons of billet production and 20,000 metric tons of additional secondary capacity.As a result, the Sebree smelter is expected to produce 230,000 metric tons of aluminum in 2019, which includes 175,000 metric tons of billet.In a prepared statement, President and CEO Michael Bless touted the "positive effects" of the Trump administration's Section 232 tariffs."These new expansion programs demonstrate our confidence in the future of the U.S. aluminum industry and the continued positive effects of the Trump administration's Section 232 program," Bless said. "With the 150,000 MT restart of Century's Hawesville smelter nearing completion, we are now able to continue to reinvest in our plants to increase value-added production and enter the expanding secondary market."These programs, along with the previously announced technology improvement program at Hawesville, should ensure the continued competitiveness of these plants well into the future."The Sebree smelter employees 515 people. Bless added as a result of the expansion, the Sebree smelter will see an addition of "nearly 50 new employees."In October, Century Aluminum reported third-quarter financial results, posting a net loss of $20.3 million, in part attributable to developments at Sebree.MetalMiner's Annual Outlook provides 2019 buying strategies for carbon steel"Third quarter results were negatively impacted by $9.2 million related to lower of cost or net realizable value ("NRV") inventory adjustments, $16.9 million related to the equipment failure at Sebree, and $1.7 million related to the Sebree labor agreement signing bonus," stated in its third-quarter earnings release.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service