China Soon to Source All Metals Needed For Anything, Including Renewables Sector…Literally.The consultancy that has undergone a post-Colonel Sanders-ification of its name, EY (formerly known as Ernst & Young; just as 'KFC' left 'Kentucky Fried Chicken' in the dust), have an index that shows the United States' renewables sector could be on its way down - giving way to, who else, China."China scored 73.1 out of 100 on the Renewable Energy Country Attractiveness Index in the fourth quarter, up from 71.6 in the third, while the U.S. slipped to 74.4 from 74.7," according to EY in an e-mailed report. Germany, Japan and the UK were next in line.It could be likely that China's renewable energy demand, driven in large part by cutting down on air pollution, is itself driving the prices of neodymium, silicon, cobalt cathodes and other materials used by PVs, wind turbines, etc. The monthly Renewables MMI(r) registered a value of 65 in March, an increase of 3.2 percent from 63 in February:Compare with last month's trends - here's our free February MMI(r) Report.China "installed about 14 gigawatts of wind power in 2013 and is targeting 18 gigawatts this year," according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance. "In contrast, U.S. wind installations plummeted to 1,084 megawatts last year from 13,131 megawatts in 2012 after a tax credit lapsed, according to American Wind Energy Association data."Is this a harbinger for things to come?"Even so, the subsequent renewal of the [US tax] credit means wind projects under construction now top 12,000 megawatts," according to the AWEA's data.However, the rather non-existent energy policy in the US causes most of the uncertainty in the sector, which is why we look elsewhere on the globe for renewable energy production drivers.After rising 5.2 percent, US grain-oriented electrical steel (GOES) finished the month higher. The price of Chinese cobalt cathodes rose 3.3 percent over the past month. Neodymium gained 2.5 percent.* Get the complete prices every day on the MetalMiner IndX(sm)Meanwhile, US steel plate prices fell 0.5 percent after rising the previous month. Plate prices also fell in China, while rising in Korea and Japan (for those buying in USD).Don't forget to read February 2014 MMI analysis before March's full report comes out next week!The Renewables MMI(r) collects and weights 8 metal price points used extensively within the renewable energy industry to provide a unique view into renewable energy metal price trends over a 30-day period. For more information on the Renewables MMI(r), how it's calculated or how your company can use the index, please drop us a note at: info (at) agmetalminer (dot) com.