China's stockmarketHangover cureCHINA'S plan to remove the $250 billion overhang of state-owned shares that has depressed its stockmarket for the past seven years is proving harder than policymakers expected. In April, the country's securities regulator said it would resume the sale of these shares (also known as non-tradable or legal-person shares), which make up two-thirds of the domestic "A"-share market's total capitalisation, starting with a pilot programme of 46 companies.Now, however, a row has blown up at the biggest and best-known of these firms--Baosteel, the mainland's leading steelmaker. Weijian Shan, managing director of Newbridge Capital, a Hong Kong venture-capital house, and one of Baosteel's four independent directors, says its particular scheme for non-tradable shares is both wrong and illegal. The steel group plans to compensate its current minority investors (some 22% of the total) for the fact that the state shares (the other 78%) will flood on to the market, further depressing the share price. Minority investors will get 2.2 extra shares for every ten they hold; and Baosteel promises to buy back shares and to pay an annual dividend of at least 0.32 yuan until 2007, which equates to a fat yield of 7.7% at the current share price.This is affordable, because the group is minting money in a booming economy, but Mr Shan is opposed in principle to the unequal treatment of different shareholders. He estimates that minority investors will be paid at least three yuan per Chinese citizen by, in effect, the government. This may not sound like much, but there are nearly 1,400 listed Chinese companies facing a similar problem."There has to be a clear delineation of property rights," says Mr Shan. "There is no reason to give away property rights especially when it will cost taxpayers, who are, in effect, the legal-person shareholders." He also argues that announcing a guaranteed dividend amounts to share-price manipulation, breaking Chinese securities laws. Not surprisingly, he voted against Baosteel's scheme. The board, though, approved it, 10-1. A shareholder vote on August 12th is also expected to give it the nod. This debate shows how tricky is the authorities' position. The Shanghai A-share market has fallen by 17% in the past year, largely because of the state-share overhang. This has stymied the development of proper capital markets and a real equity culture, which would help wean China off its dependence on bank lending. At some point, someone will have to pay to fix all this. It is likely to be the taxpayer.