China and the Rio Tinto detentionsThe steel fist of governmentIllustration by David SimondsSYMBOLICALLY and practically, steel plays a large role in China's rapidly industrialising economy, and the main steelmakers have direct ties to the government. So no one in the country was in any doubt that the spreading investigation into the steelmakers' negotiations with foreign iron-ore miners, beginning with the detention on July 5th of four executives of Rio Tinto, an Anglo-Australian firm, represented a drastic government intervention in the workings of business. Just how drastic, however, continues to surprise.On July 15th an executive at Laiwu Iron & Steel was reported to have been detained, the second non-Rio employee to be brought in after the earlier detention of a manager from the Shougang Group. These are large companies, important in their own right, but the news of the two executives' fate was quickly topped by a report in the government-controlled China Daily, quoting an anonymous "industry insider" as saying that managers at all 16 of the country's big steel companies involved in the iron-ore negotiations had been bribed by Rio.In the face of these reports the government itself has been almost silent, noting only that the Rio case is tied to "state secrets" and "espionage". It has not explained why apparently routine business dealings are being treated as a matter of national security. Rio, along with the other global iron-ore producers, has been in brutal price negotiations with China for many months, busting the deadlines for their completion. The detentions have done nothing to advance the negotiations, although some steelmakers are widely reported to have cracked and provisionally agreed to a cut in ore prices of only 33%. This is significantly less than they had sought, though it corresponds to prices that South Korean and Japanese mills had already agreed to.The possible breakthrough followed reports that the ore producers had begun holding back deliveries to China. The delays in striking a deal had also caused a spike in ore prices on the spot market, benefiting Australian miners at the expense of the Chinese steelmakers.The Chinese negotiators are known to have been deeply unhappy with the miners' proposed contract terms. But the use of spying charges in connection with what should be a purely commercial transaction has, given the opacity of the country's legal system, sent a shudder through foreign businesses operating in China. Australia's prime minister, Kevin Rudd, warned China's authorities that the move could injure their commercial relationships around the world. Besides making foreign firms think twice about investing, it could impede efforts by China's acquisitive resources companies to buy operations in other countries, by adding to foreigners' doubts about putting their industry in the hands of an opaque, quixotic government.The Rio case comes on top of other, less publicised moves which involved bewildering use of the legal system and may also have been motivated by economic nationalism. In June three managers at Guangdong Development Bank in southern China were detained over unspecified matters. The bank is managed by Citigroup, which owns 20% of it. None of the employees was originally from Citi but one was the representative of China Life, also a large shareholder in the bank, and one of China's biggest companies.The detentions were disclosed in mid-June, not long after the arrest of the mayor of Shenzhen, a fast-growing southern city, over allegations of corruption. More quietly, lawyers say there have been increasing threats of legal action or detentions tied to a number of property developments involving foreign firms there and in Tianjin, where another corruption investigation has been unfolding.News of detentions often emerges, if at all, not from the authorities but from informal sources including the news media or family members. This only adds to suspicions about the true motives behind the investigations. One lawyer says his foreign clients are not waiting around for more information: they have begun asking to have their names removed from the boards of domestic Chinese operations, just in case they are next.