Commerce Will Investigate Dumping of Indian Stainless Pressure PipeThe Department of Commerce initiated anti-dumping duty and countervailing duty investigations of imports of welded stainless pressure pipe from India yesterday. Commerce alleged the imports are being dumped in the US at a margin of 32.06% and subsidies above the minimum rate are helping the pipe imports.Free Sample Report: Our Annual Metal Buying OutlookIn 2014, imports of welded stainless pressure pipe from India were valued at an estimated $36.9 million. Dumping occurs when a foreign company sells a product in the US at less than its fair value. For the purpose of countervailing investigations, countervailable subsidies are financial assistance from foreign governments that benefit the production of goods from foreign companies and are limited to specific enterprises or industries.The US International Trade Commission (ITC) is scheduled to make its preliminary injury determination on or before November 16.If the ITC determines that there is a reasonable indication that imports of welded stainless pressure pipe from India materially injure, or threaten material injury to, the domestic industry, the investigations will continue and Commerce will be scheduled to make its preliminary CVD determination in December 2015 and its preliminary AD determination in March 2016, unless the statutory deadlines are extended. If the ITC's preliminary determination is negative, the investigations will be terminatedThe investigation includes circular welded austenitic stainless pressure pipe not greater than 14 inches in outside diameter. References to size are in nominal inches and include all products within tolerances allowed by pipe specifications. This merchandise includes, but is not limited to, the American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM) A-312 or ASTM A-778 specifications, or comparable domestic or foreign specifications. ASTM A-358 products are only included when they are produced to meet ASTM A-312 or ASTM A-778 specifications, or comparable domestic or foreign specifications.Free Download: The October MMI ReportThe petitioners asking for Commerce to investigate are domestic producers Bristol Metals, LLC; Felker Brothers Corporation; Outokumpu Stainless Pipe, Inc.; and Marcegaglia USA Inc.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service