Conflict Minerals Reporting Be Ready for Independent Private Sector AuditsWhat will the number of IPSAs look like for 2015? Source: DeloitteRecently, Deloitte put out a story in their Heads Up newsletter on what companies should be thinking about for their next Section 1502 ("Conflict Minerals Rule") compliance reports, including how to best prepare for independent private sector audits (IPSA). Below are some nuggets for US manufacturing organizations to keep in mind. For an excellent rundown of the latest legal challenge to SEC's Conflict Minerals Rule from the US Court of Appeals, read my colleague Jeff's recent article.Free Sample Report: Our Monthly Metal Buying OutlookCurrently, there is uncertainty as to whether SEC will require IPSAs for all companies filing conflict minerals reports (CMR) for calendar-year 2015. More on that below, but first, a quick refresher:Basically, there are two main objectives of the independent private sector audit, according to Deloitte's report:Our friend Lawrence Heim of Elm Consulting Group International posted a few days ago on LinkedIn, asking, "Are conflict minerals IPSAs the new Walking Dead?" In short order, Lawrence answers that question by way of his take on when IPSA's will be required and how likely that will be:"The reports of IPSA's death are highly exaggerated; it may be more accurate to say IPSAs are undead.Media coverage concerning last week's District Court decision vacating the use of the SEC's specific product determination wording claim that no IPSA will be required for CY2015 filings. From our perspective, cueing the funeral dirge may be premature (the line from Monty Python and The Holy Grail comes to mind - "I'm not dead yet")...You certainly won't be alone should your company choose to begin auditor selection.We have heard that it is possible the SEC will require IPSAs for all CMR filers. There could be truth in this as the SEC economic analysis for the IPSAs in their final release was based on their estimate that 4500 issuers would require an IPSA - far higher than the actual number of CMR filers IN TOTAL for CY2014. If SEC chooses to require IPSAs for all CY2015 CMR filers (likely 1200 - 1300), that cost has already been taken into consideration in the final rule's economic analysis, eliminating that argument."(Lawrence closes out by linking to what is surely a helpful webinar on IPSAs.)According to Deloitte, here are some next steps for companies to think about:Free Download: Latest Metal Price Trends in the August MMI ReportRead Deloitte's full newsletter for complete details behind the recommendations.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service