Dept. of Commerce Determines 257% Dumping Rate for Chinese Stainless Steel FlangesThe U.S. Department of Commerce. qingwa/Adobe StockThe U.S. Department of Commerce announced Wednesday that it made a final affirmative determination in its anti-dumping investigation of stainless steel flanges from China.Need buying strategies for steel? Try two free months of MetalMiner's OutlookAccording to a release, Commerce determined Chinese exporters sold the product at 257.11% less than fair value.Imports of the stainless steel flanges from China in 2017 amounted to 2,964 metric tons and were valued at $21.8 million, according to the DOC. The 2017 import total marked a 20.8% increase from the 2,454 metric tons imported from China in 2016.The Coalition of American Flange Producers and its individual members -- Core Pipe Products, Inc. (Carol Stream, Illinois) and Maass Flange Corporation (Houston, Texas) -- were the petitioners in the case (the petitions were filed in August 2017).The DOC assigned the rate specifically to China's Shanxi Guanjiaying Flange Forging Group Co., "based on adverse facts available due to the respondent's failure to provide complete responses to certain sections of Commerce's questionnaire." Similar reasoning was made for the China-wide rate -- also 257.11% -- which several other companies fall under. The DOC fact sheet on the probe also names the following Chinese firms: Hydro-Fluids Controls Limited; Songhai Flange Manufacturing Co., Ltd.; and Dongtai QB Stainless Steel Co., Ltd.MetalMiner's Annual Outlook provides 2018 buying strategies for carbon steelThe case now moves to the U.S. International Trade Commission. If that body also rules in the affirmative, the DOC will issue an anti-dumping duty order. A decision is expected by July 19.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service