DOC Issues Preliminary CVD Determination on Tubing from India, ChinaArgus/Adobe StockThe Department of Commerce issued a preliminary affirmative determination Tuesday in the countervailing duty investigation of cold-drawn mechanical tubing from China and India.Benchmark Your Current Metal Price by Grade, Shape and Alloy: See How it Stacks Up"The Trump Administration will not sit back and watch as American companies and workers are harmed by unfair government subsidies," Secretary of Commerce Wilbur Ross said in a prepared statement. "The United States is committed to free, fair and reciprocal trade, and will continue to validate the information provided to us that brought us to this decision."The Department of Commerce determined that the form of tubing from China benefited from countervailable subsidies of 33.31-35.69%, and that Indian tubing benefited from subsidies of 3.04-8.09%.In 2016, cold-drawn mechanical tubing from China and India were valued at an estimated $29.4 million and $25 million, respectively, according to the Department of Commerce.The petitioners in the case were ArcelorMittal Tubular Products (OH), Michigan Seamless Tube, LLC (MI), PTC Alliance Corp. (PA), Webco Industries, Inc. (OK), and Zekelman Industries, Inc. (PA).The Department of Commerce will instruct U.S. Customs and Border Protection to collect cash deposits from importers of cold-drawn mechanical tubing from China and India based on the aforementioned preliminary rates. The department collected $1.5 billion in duties on $14 billion of imported goods found to be underpriced, or subsidized by foreign governments, according to the department's release.Free Download: The September 2017 MMI ReportThe Department of Commerce is scheduled to announce its final determinations in the case on Dec. 4.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service