DOC Opens Investigations on Titanium Sponge ImportsArgus/Adobe StockThe U.S. Department of Commerce has been busy this year.Benchmark Your Current Metal Price by Grade, Shape and Alloy: See How it Stacks UpThe department added another investigation to its agenda, announcing late last week that it had launched antidumping and countervailing duty investigations into titanium sponge imports from Japan and Kazakhstan."The Department of Commerce intends to act swiftly to halt any unfair trade practices and will render our decisions at the earliest opportunity, while also assuring a full and fair assessment of the facts," Secretary of Commerce Wilbur Ross said in a release. "The U.S. market is the most open in the world, but we must take action to ensure U.S. businesses and workers are treated fairly."The new investigation marked the 65th new antidumping or countervailing duty probe of the year by the Department of Commerce. Through Sept. 14, the number of new investigations has increased by 45% compared with the same time frame last year, according to the Department of Commerce release.The case comes on the heels of petitions filed by Titanium Metals Corporation (TIMET) on Aug. 24.The investigations will seek to determine whether titanium sponge from Japan and Kazakhstan is being sold at less than fair value, as well as if the imports from Kazakhstan are receiving countervailable government subsidies.Imports of titanium sponge from Japan and Kazakhstan were valued at an estimated $144.8 million and $374,000, respectively, according to the Department of Commerce.Free Download: The September 2017 MMI ReportThe U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) will make a preliminary determination in the cases on or before Oct. 10. Assuming the ITC determines there is a reasonable indication that imports of the product threaten the domestic industry, the Department of Commerce will then issue a preliminary determination in the countervailing duty case by Nov. 17, 2017, and the antidumping cases by Jan. 31, 2018.TIMET, based in Exton, Pennsylvania, supplies nearly a fifth of the world's titanium, and has production facilities in both the U.S. and Europe, according to its website.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service