DOC Issues Affirmative CVD Ruling on Chinese Cast Iron Soil Pipe FittingsThe Department of Commerce announced Wednesday, Dec. 13, that it had issued a preliminary affirmative determination in the countervailing duty (CVD) investigation of cast iron soil pipe fittings from China.Benchmark Your Current Metal Price by Grade, Shape and Alloy: See How it Stacks UpThe department announced the determination in a release, ruling that exporters from China received countervailable subsidies in a fairly broad range of 8.66-102.31%."The Trump Administration will not sit back and watch as American companies and workers are harmed by unfair government subsidies," Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross said in a prepared statement. "The United States is committed to free, fair and reciprocal trade, and will continue to validate the information provided to us that brought us to this decision."The petitioner in the case was the Illinois-based Cast Iron Soil Pipe Institute, which boasts three members: AB&I Foundry (California), Charlotte Pipe & Foundry (North Carolina), and Tyler Pipe (Texas).According to the department, the 79 antidumping or countervailing duty investigation it initiated from Jan. 20 to Dec. 11 of this year marks a 52 percent increase from investigations started during the same period last year.As for the respondents, according to a fact sheet provided by the Commerce Department, the following preliminary subsidies were calculated for the respondents:According to the Department of Commerce, imports of cast iron soil pipe fittings from China during 2016 were valued at an estimated $8.6 million.A final decision in the CVD case is scheduled for April 24, 2018.The U.S. International Trade Commission (USITC) issued its own ruling Dec. 14 on stainless steel butt-weld pipe fittings from Italy, Malaysia and the Philippines.Free Sample Report: Our Annual Metal Buying OutlookThe USITC ruled that removing existing antidumping duty orders on the product from the trio of countries "would be likely to lead to continuation or recurrence of material injury within a reasonably foreseeable time."Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service