DOC Issues Affirmative Ruling in Cast Iron Soil Pipe Fittings Anti-Dumping ProbeThe U.S. Department of Commerce. qingwa/Adobe StockThe Department of Commerce announced it had reached a preliminary affirmative determination in its anti-dumping investigation of cast iron soil pipe fittings from China.Wondering how your stainless steel prices compare to the market? Benchmark with MetalMiner"Though politics plays no role in antidumping investigations, President Trump made it clear that we will vigorously enforce our trade laws and provide U.S. industry relief from unfair trade practices," Secretary of Commerce Wilbur Ross said in a department release. "Today's decision allows U.S. producers of cast iron soil pipe fittings to receive relief from the market-distorting effects of potential dumping while we continue our investigation."The department determined China sold the pipe fittings at 68.37% to 109.95% less than fair value in the U.S.Preliminary dumping rates by Chinese respondent. Source: U.S. Department of CommerceThe petitioner in the case is the Cast Iron Soil Pipe Institute, based in Mundelein, Illinois. The institute's members span the country: AB&I Foundry (California), Charlotte Pipe & Foundry (North Carolina), and Tyler Pipe (Texas).According to the Department of Commerce, imports of the cast iron soil pipe fittings in 2016 were valued at $8.6 million.Want to a see Cold Rolled price forecast? Get two monthly reports for free!The department is scheduled to make a final determination in the anti-dumping case around June 28. If the department makes an affirmative determination at that point, the International Trade Commission will then announce its own determination Aug. 20.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service