Dump Watch II Chinese Carbon and Alloy Steel Wire Dumped, Receive Stiff TariffsThe Department of Commerce has placed anti-dumping and countervailing duties on imports of carbon and alloy steel wire rod from China.FREE Download: The Monthly MMI(r) Report - covering Steel/Iron Ore markets.The merchandise covered by these investigations is hot-rolled products of carbon steel and alloy steel, in coils, of approximately circular cross sections, less than 19 mm in actual solid cross-sectional diameter.Dumping occurs when a foreign company sells a product in the US at less than its fair value. For the purpose of CVD investigations, countervailable subsidies are financial assistance from foreign governments that benefit the production of goods from foreign companies and are limited to specific enterprises or industries, or are contingent either upon export performance or upon the use of domestic goods over imported goods.Commerce determined that imports of carbon and alloy steel wire rod from China have been sold in the US at dumping margins ranging from 106.19% to 110.25%. Commerce determined that producers/exporters of carbon and alloy steel wire rod from China have received countervailable subsidies ranging from 178.46%to 193.31%.In the anti-dumping investigation, mandatory respondents Benxi Iron and Steel Group Imp. and Exp. Corp. Ltd. and Tangshan Iron and Steel Group Co. Ltd. failed to respond to Commerce's requests for information and were deemed to be part of the China-wide entity. Accordingly, they received a final dumping margin of 110.25%. Separate rate applicants Hunan Valin Xiangtan Iron & Steel Co., Ltd. (Hunan Valin), Jiangsu Shagang International Trade Co., Ltd. (Shagang), and Rizhao Steel Wire Co., Ltd. (Rizhao) each received a final dumping margin of 106.19%. All other producers/exporters in China received the China-wide margin of 110.25%.The petitioners for these investigations are ArcelorMittal USA LLC (IL), Charter Steel (WI), Evraz Pueblo (formerly Evraz Rocky Mountain Steel) (CO), Gerdau Ameristeel US Inc. (FL), Keystone Consolidated Industries, Inc. (TX), and Nucor Corporation (NC).