EDP Renewables Adds GE’s New Technology to 402 US Wind TurbinesTime for an upgrade! "EDP Renewables (EDPR) will use GE's GE -0.73% Wind PowerUp*, a GE Predictivity solution, to increase the power output of 402 GE 1.5-77 wind turbines located at five U.S. wind farms. PowerUp is a customized software-enabled platform that increases a wind farm's output," reports MarketWatch."By using PowerUp, EDPR is expected to increase power, generating more than 420,000 megawatt hours of additional energy each year, which would provide the equivalent power used by 33,000 average U.S. homes. The contract model between GE and EDPR is structured to minimize risk while enabling new technologies to be quickly added to the EDPR fleet as they are developed in the coming years.""'GE's PowerUp software will allow us to improve the power curve and increase the annual energy production of these 402 wind turbines. At EDPR we like to be a leader in innovation and explore creative ways to make the most of our units and collaborating with GE has been a win-win for us,' said Brian Hayes, executive vice president, EDP Renewables."In metal price news for the renewables sector...The week's biggest mover on the weekly Renewables MMI(r), US steel plate jumped 1.4 percent. Prices for Korean steel plate remained constant. Japanese steel plate remained unchanged for the week.* Get the complete prices every day on the MetalMiner IndX(sm)Chinese renewables prices were flat for the week. Chinese cobalt cathodes prices held steady from the previous week. The price of silicon did not change since the previous week. Following a steady week, prices for neodymium closed flat. Chinese steel plate traded sideways last week.FREE Download: The Monthly MMI(r) Report - covering the Renewable Energy metals market.For the fifth day in a row, US grain-oriented electrical steel (GOES) remained essentially flat.The Renewables MMI(r) collects and weights 8 metal price points used extensively within the renewable energy industry to provide a unique view into renewable energy metal price trends. For more information on the Renewables MMI(r), how it's calculated or how your company can use the index, please drop us a note at: info (at) agmetalminer (dot) com.