Face valueIn a deep holeBloomberg NewsEVEN as a young man, Tom Albanese gathered that there was much more to mining than digging big holes in the ground. Shortly after arriving at the University of Alaska at Fairbanks, he persuaded the authorities to create a new degree course for him combining geology, the subject of a true mining man, with economics, an area of study that geologists often regard with bafflement and suspicion. But he had wisely noted that the business of mining is as much about judicious dealmaking when the commodity cycle is in your favour as it is about digging riches directly from the earth--and he wanted to be prepared.Since becoming chief executive of Rio Tinto, one of the giants of the mining industry, in May 2007, Mr Albanese has grappled with three big deals, which have come to dominate both Rio's fortunes and his own. In the first, just a few months into his tenure, he outbid Alcoa, an American aluminium firm, to secure Alcan, a Canadian rival, for $38 billion. A few months later, he spurned a second deal, a takeover bid from rival BHP Billiton. Both those decisions now look like mistakes, in the light of the subsequent collapse in commodities prices. So Mr Albanese has responded by concocting a third deal, with Chinalco, a largely state-owned Chinese aluminium firm. But many of Rio's shareholders have already lost faith in his dealmaking prowess.Mr Albanese, under pressure from all sides, "fully accepts that values have changed" since Rio bought Alcan. The purchase, which saddled Rio with $40 billion in debt, was based on the premise that the commodities cycle was still some distance from a downward turn. But in the final quarter of 2008 the slowdown in China and slump elsewhere sent metal prices into a tailspin. Some $9 billion of Rio's debts fall due this year, and $10 billion in 2010. But the firm is not generating enough revenue to pay them off, and has few refinancing options amid the credit crunch.Mr Albanese's decision to rebuff BHP Billiton's advances has also tarnished his dealmaking credentials. He expended much time and effort in 2008 marshalling arguments to see the bid off, believing that it seriously undervalued Rio and that his company was better alone. But now Rio's stockmarket value hovers around $35 billion, far below the $190 billion price implied by BHP's all-share offer at one point during the takeover battle.Mr Albanese was not the only boss of a big mining firm to misread the robustness of China's rampant growth, which had driven a six-year boom in commodity prices and made mining unimaginably profitable. But he is the only one to have turned to China for a bail-out. The hope is that this time round China will prove easier to read.Chinalco has come to Rio's defence once before. The Chinese firm (with a little help from Alcoa) paid $14 billion for a 9% stake in Mr Albanese's company in February 2008 at the height of the takeover battle with BHP. Chinalco's stakebuilding was widely interpreted at the time as an effort to block a merger that China feared would lead to two companies (Rio/BHP and Brazil's Vale) dominating the seaborne trade in iron ore. That, in turn, would have conferred upon them unwelcome pricing power over a commodity that is particularly crucial to China's economy.In the end, BHP dropped its bid, citing Rio's debilitating debts. Now Mr Albanese is turning to Chinalco to help him with those, too. The Chinese firm will pay $12.3 billion for stakes of up to 50% in nine of Rio's mines and $7.2 billion for convertible bonds that would give it the right to raise its stake in Rio to 18%.The deal digs Mr Albanese out of a hole the size of Tom Price, the huge iron-ore complex in the Pilbara region of Western Australia in which Chinalco stands to take a stake. But it has met with a blast of criticism, not least from other investors who had hoped to take part in fund-raising. Mr Albanese reckons on two difficult years before commodity prices pick up again. He believes a rights issue could have raised only around $10 billion--not enough to see the firm through. But others disagree: misgivings about the deal seem to have prompted the resignation of Jim Leng, the company's chairman-designate.Some of the furore can be dismissed as unwarranted sinophobia. Mr Albanese points out that these types of joint ventures, even with potential customers, are not uncommon in mining. And many analysts agree that Mr Albanese has wrested a decent price for the slices of his assets in a depressed market. But some critics contend that some of these mines are ripe for the sort of expansion that could greatly boost their value when times are less tough. If so, it seems that Chinalco, after losing heavily on its first investment in Rio, has struck a better deal this time.A Chinese puzzleShould Mr Albanese worry that Rio's biggest shareholder by far could be the Chinese government, which also owns stakes in some of its biggest customers? He is keen to point out that Chinalco is "independent and commercial". Australian regulators, nervous about China's influence over such prime assets, are closely scrutinising that claim. Mr Albanese vaunts the strategic value of Chinalco as a partner with its expertise in and access to China's markets and its ability to raise further Chinese funds. The nature of the relations between Chinalco and China's government is opaque. But Mr Albanese is confident that governance rules will preclude Chinalco's directors from taking part in boardroom discussions where there is potential conflict between China's interests (keeping commodity prices low) and those of Rio's other shareholders (pushing prices higher). Moreover wealthy China is sure to make more big foreign investments, so it should be keen to prove it can be a responsible partner.Shareholders will get the chance to vote on Mr Albanese's latest bargain around the middle of the year, if regulators give it the go-ahead. If they balk, or the deal sours, Mr Albanese's deal-making days will be numbered.