Face valueJolly gold giantPETER MUNK is as sprightly an 80-year-old as you are likely to meet. That is just as well. On March 27th Barrick Gold, the world's biggest gold-mining firm, announced that its chairman would temporarily take over as chief executive, a role Mr Munk relinquished in 1999, while Greg Wilkins, the company's current boss, undergoes medical treatment. Barrick's shareholders were unperturbed; its share price hardly flinched. And with good reason. Mr Munk, who founded Barrick in 1983, is mainly responsible for what he calls the "happy miracle" that has propelled the Canadian mining firm from its beginnings as a small oil and gas company to a golden giant. And Mr Munk's enthusiasm for the business appears undimmed.An open-necked polo shirt and genial demeanour lend Mr Munk the air of a retired professor, rather than the architect of a company now worth $38 billion, with 27 mines on five continents. His informality extends to a faint amusement that anyone would deem it necessary to wear a tie in his presence. And he cheerfully acknowledges the role of fate, saying that success comes through being "lucky, smart and getting the timing right--the stars have to cross". But he also admits to a driving ambition, which an early setback did little to dent. Clairtone, an upmarket television and hi-fi manufacturer which he founded in 1958, competed with the big Western brands before collapsing under the onslaught of Japanese electronics firms. Undeterred, Mr Munk went on to build the biggest hotel-chain in Australasia, despite a lack of previous experience in the industry. He also amassed a substantial American commercial-property company, Trizec, which he sold for $4.8 billion in 2006, just before property shares took a beating. But it is his gold business that continues to prosper.The decision to shift Barrick from oil and gas into gold mining looks canny now. In 1983, however, the prospects for oil and gas were good, while the gold price was falling from a peak it hit in 1980. But Canada, where Mr Munk had settled after fleeing his native Hungary in 1944 to escape the Nazis, had much to offer: a pool of mineral deposits, readily available capital and talented engineers from the country's two big mining schools. Mr Munk had another big advantage: a willingness to modernise the way miners did business. At the time, mining firms were staffed by tough, hearty men who wanted to dig big holes in the ground; the interests of shareholders came a distant second. Mr Munk looks rueful when describing this "cultural divide" and the synergies that a merger between two of Canada's biggest miners, INCO and Falconbridge, could have brought. The thought of a good deal left undone clearly pains him. He blames the "fraternity" that existed between Canada's miners for deadening competitive instincts. His regret turns to irritation that both Canadian firms have since fallen to foreign mining firms. Despite his Hungarian roots, Mr Munk is a proud Canadian.Mr Munk had little experience of mining when Barrick started out, but he knew how "Wall Street paper shufflers" operated, and shuffled some paper himself. Barrick was a firm that "lived by acquisition", expanding first in Canada and then in 1994 venturing abroad for Lac Minerals, with mines in America and Chile. The last big buy, of Canada's Placer Dome for $10 billion in 2006, made Barrick the world's biggest gold miner. Takeovers require steady cashflows, which in turn depend on the gold price. So Barrick introduced a hedging scheme, novel to gold mining, that involved selling future production at a fixed price. Mr Munk was thus able to neutralise the risk of a falling gold price to fund acquisitions and capital-intensive projects. These hedges were largely unwound before the gold price began its rapid ascent, causing Barrick's share price to rise sharply in the past year along with the gold price.Barrick may yet consider more big acquisitions--though with gold hovering just below $1,000 an ounce, potential targets are off-puttingly expensive. Mr Munk is reluctant to forecast where the gold price might go, but is confident that the prices will stay high. Turmoil in the financial system, and a worrying lack of new discoveries of large deposits, should see to that. In the meantime Barrick is sitting on the biggest reserves of gold of any mining firm--125m ounces--and has a substantial pipeline of exploratory projects. But this comes at a price too. New ore bodies are of poorer quality than yesteryear and sit deeper underground, so costs are rising. Five years ago Barrick produced an ounce of gold for $174, but that figure has more than doubled since then. And new mines require bigger investments, taking up to a decade to reach full production. Might Barrick come to regret relying so heavily on a single commodity? Not necessarily. Through acquisitions it has picked up sizeable silver, copper and nickel businesses. And newer deposits tend to mix gold with other ores, so diversification will continue.Mr Munk established a charitable foundation in 1992 and says he intends to leave his entire estate to charity. In recent years his foundation has granted $33m to Toronto General Hospital and $16m to the Technion, an engineering school in Israel. Mr Munk is keen to keep expanding his legacy where he can. An interest in sailing has led him into a scheme to help with Montenegro's plan to become a second Monte Carlo. By chance he noticed that the pocket-sized country's government owned an old Warsaw Pact naval dockyard in a prime location, and spotted the potential at once. With little investment it can be converted into a huge marina, he says, with berths for the Mediterranean's growing flotilla of luxury yachts. He hopes it will attract the super-rich with the hefty disposable incomes that Montenegro needs. Big boats also command hefty mooring fees--so Mr Munk believes he has struck gold once again. 