German corporate governanceRing of steelWHAT a pity that Gerhard Cromme, chairman of ThyssenKrupp and one of the leading lights of corporate Germany, practises so little of what he preaches. Last week he presided over a power shift that irreversibly gave control of his company to one minority shareholder. Small family firms get up to things like this all the time, but ThyssenKrupp is a top-30 listed firm with around 67% of its shares in free float.This is not the only example of how Mr Cromme's own behaviour contradicts the recommendations of an official corporate-governance commission, of which he is the chairman. According to Germany's corporate-governance code, adopted in 2002, a former chief executive of a company should not head its supervisory board, for instance, unless there is a special reason; but Mr Cromme does just that.At ThyssenKrupp's annual meeting on January 19th, he pleaded that the conglomerate was a "special case" to justify giving the Alfried Krupp Foundation, set up in memory of the firm's founder, the right to nominate three members to the supervisory board in perpetuity. With 25.1% of the shares, another 2.8% owned by the Thyssen Foundation, and the right to nominate two members, the Krupp Foundation was already in a position to ensure the firm's stability and to deter unwanted corporate raiders. Even so, the proposal narrowly secured the necessary 75% of votes present. It is unlikely ever to be reversed, since that would require the Krupp Foundation to vote against itself."I have no sympathy for an arrangement that in effect shuts out the rightful influence of other shareholders," said Christian Strenger of DWS, Germany's biggest fund manager. "Bad for the reputation of corporate Germany," added Hans-Christoph Hirt of Hermes, another fund manager. It is not as if ThyssenKrupp is in trouble and needs protection: in the final quarter of 2006 its pre-tax profits surged to EUR1 billion ($1.3 billion) on sales of EUR12 billion.The irony for Mr Cromme is that ThyssenKrupp's own efforts to take over Dofasco, a Canadian steelmaker, have been thwarted by the obstinacy of a Dutch foundation set up as a "poison pill" by Dofasco's owner, Arcelor, during its takeover battle last year with Mittal Steel. Mittal had agreed to sell Dofasco to ThyssenKrupp after the Arcelor merger, but the foundation will not co-operate. Its decision was upheld by a court in Rotterdam on January 23rd, forcing ThyssenKrupp to rethink its strategy in North America. That is a foretaste of how the Krupp Foundation could possibly block the plans of ThyssenKrupp managers, and a majority of its shareholders, in future. Nice one, Mr Cromme.