Glencore and XstrataHappy endingIN ANY good romantic comedy (or "romcom" in the lingo) you know the ending: the lovers will eventually end up together. The trials and tribulations of the consummation are what make for the entertainment along the way. So it seems with Glencore, a huge commodity trader and miner, and its efforts to join together with Xstrata, another mining giant. Rarely has a mining merger provided so much entertainment for the casual viewer.Glencore's IPO last year was designed to give it a currency with which to pursue Xstrata, a firm in which it already has a 34% stake. Under the terms of a proposed merger of equals, unveiled in February, Glencore offered 2.8 of its shares in exchange for one of Xstrata's. The latter's board recommended the deal to shareholders.Most analysts reckoned that the deal would go ahead. They broadly accepted the logic of combining the two firms' mining businesses and Glencore's commodity-trading arm, but reckoned that Xstrata was worth a bit more. Glencore would need to increase its offer to placate some investors in Xstrata. Indeed, on September 7th Glencore did sweeten the deal shortly before an Xstrata shareholders assembly (which attracted all kinds of demonstrators, pictured) to 3.05 shares and it seems the two firms will now become one.The path to that destination has rarely run smoothly. The romcom requires a plotline that keeps the lovebirds apart. In this case, Qatar's sovereign-wealth fund has played the role of the gooseberry. The fund had a small stake in Xstrata in February, when the deal was announced. To everyone's surprise, it continued to buy shares in Xstrata, building a 13% stake. The mathematics of the deal (a 75% acceptance by Xstrata shareholders, excluding Glencore) meant that this stake, combined with holdings of other disgruntled investors who wanted a bit more, was enough to block the deal unless Qatar's demands of 3.25 Glencore shares were met.Mr Glasenberg affected unconcern at the interloper's demands despite his obvious desire to bring the two firms together. He suggested that he did not regard it as a "must do" deal (although he undoubtedly did) and that he would turn his back on Xstrata. There were suggestions he might wait the year that British takeover laws require before trying to do a deal again (though the Qataris would probably still be around to make life hard).Just as it seemed the tryst was doomed, that romcom staple, a go-between to smooth the way to the denouement, arrived in the shape of Tony Blair, a former British prime minister and current Middle East peace envoy. At Glencore's behest he arranged a last-gasp meeting between Mr Glasenberg and the Qataris as the deal's deadline approached. The bump in price was agreed.In exchange for the premium Mr Glasenberg will take over from Mr Davis as boss of the combined firm after six months rather than Mr Davis remaining in charge for longer as originally planned. Xstrata's board will respond to the revised terms by September 24th. But it looks likely that the deal will go ahead--a happy ending that has eluded attempts at other big mining mergers in recent years.