Glencore and XstrataOre inspiringANALYSTS have been poring over the mathematics of the proposed all-share merger between Glencore and Xstrata, announced on February 7th, trying to work out which side has the better of the deal. Is one share of Xstrata, a mining company based in Switzerland but listed in London, a fair swap for 2.8 of its Swiss neighbour, Glencore, a miner and by far the world's biggest commodities trader? Mick Davis, Xstrata's boss, proposed a different equation for investors to ponder. "One plus one...equals 11," was his summary of the merger's merits.Mr Davis, an accountant by training and a qualified cricket umpire, is generally given to more sober judgments. Perhaps he can be excused his excitement. A deal would forge the world's fourth-largest mining company with a market capitalisation not far shy of $90 billion, and Mr Davis will be its chief executive.The return of the mining mega-merger was no surprise. Ivan Glasenberg, Glencore's boss, has long talked as if a merger had already taken place. His company owns 34% of Xstrata, which was formed by a spin-off of Glencore's coal mines in 2002. Part of the motivation for Glencore's initial public offering last year was to put a value on the company and give it a currency with which to strike a deal.The alliance would extend Xstrata's lead as the world's biggest thermal-coal miner, giving it more than one-tenth of the market, and make it the global number-three in copper. With more mines in more countries, the new firm's risks would be spread more widely. Half of Glencore's business is buying and selling commodities. With all Xstrata's output at its disposal, it would be better able to blend coal and ores to customers' specific requirements and exploit price differentials around the world.A combined company would also be able to grow more quickly than two separate ones in a business where scale is everything. It should have a lower cost of capital, which would help it buy yet more companies. Xstrata went from tiddler to giant in a decade thanks to a string of canny purchases by Mr Davis. Teaming up with Glencore's worldwide network of traders, always on the lookout for a deal, would give it a head start over competitors. Glencore has snapped up mines in Africa and Asia before anyone else knew they were for sale. Big rivals already have to resort to pricier hostile takeovers or open tenders for new assets; the merger would make their task harder. A larger company should also be better equipped to cope with the risks of digging in countries where politics is making life more difficult for foreign miners (see article).Size can cause problems with officials as well as create advantages. It is possible that the world's antitrust authorities may not like the look of a merger that unites a dominant commodity trader and a leading miner of lead and zinc as well as coal and copper. Yet Glencore already sells plenty of what Xstrata hoicks out of the ground and the combined company's market share would be up to 12% (in zinc). Trade in these commodities is highly competitive.Of late both Glencore and Xstrata have favoured fairly small acquisitions. However, their union could be the first in another round of big mergers, of the sort that reshaped the mining industry several years ago. Mr Glasenberg has spoken of the merged company playing a "decisive role in industry consolidation". Several analysts have identified Anglo American, the smallest of the five global mining giants, as the likeliest target, even though buying Anglo would mark a change of style for Glencore and Xstrata. Glencore has bought smaller mining companies; Xstrata's skill lies in wringing more out of mines more cheaply by rejigging operations and financing. Anglo's vast mines are already among the most efficient.The merger's logic may be hard to dispute. But Xstrata's shareholders are unhappy. They believe that in the attempt to create a mining behemoth they are being short-changed. A couple of large institutional investors have threatened to block a deal that they believe favours Glencore. Xstrata brings better assets, a stronger balance-sheet and rosier prospects for growth, according to Andrew Keen of HSBC, a bank. Investors have had trouble understanding and valuing Glencore's trading business. Its shares change hands for much less than their initial offer price.Xstrata's investors are probably hoping to improve the terms of the deal rather than to stop it. The chances are that the merger will go ahead, in which case Mr Davis and Mr Glasenberg will have broken a recent trend. Several proposed giant mining mergers have come unstuck. Efforts to merge all or parts of BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto foundered. Anglo American rebuffed Xstrata. Glencore blocked the pursuit of Xstrata by Brazil's Vale. In mining one plus one often adds up to nothing.