Globalisation to the rescueKOSICE, the second city of Slovakia, is an old-fashioned company town dominated by the steel plant of the East Slovakian Ironworks (VSZ). Unemployment in Kosice (pronounced kosh-itz-ee) is high, but VSZ employs 24,000 at wages higher than the national average. A third of the families in Kosice, reckons a city official, have a relative working at the plant. Few of the company towns spawned, like Kosice, by communist autarky have been so lucky. The saviour of those that have has invariably been a western company that has spotted a promising industrial plant at a good price, and has then injected money and management skills to turn the place around--witness Volkswagen's success with the Czech company, Skoda Auto, and the ensuing prosperity for Skoda's company town of Mlada Boleslav. Kosice's saviour has been the Pittsburgh-based US Steel, which bought the company in November last year for $500m, $325m of which was in assumed debt. The American company also agreed to pump in $700m of new investment and to guarantee that there would be no forced redundancies for 17,000 of the workforce for ten years. As befits its local importance, the steel plant is built on the scale of Darth Vader's Deathstar. There are clinics, schools, shops, banks, even a travel agent, "Ferrotour". One hall is over a mile long. A grey glinting blizzard of iron flakes falls like snow in the smelters where, with computerised precision, vats of molten iron begin their journey of treatments--a journey which ends in shiny value-added products like tin-coated metal for cans or galvanised automotive steel, which is where the margins are made in today's steel business.The Slovak prime minister, Mikulas Dzurinda, for whom the sale of VSZ to a western strategic investor was a political imperative, received a congratulatory telegram from Bill Clinton after the deal with US Steel was signed--as well he might. VSZ accounted for 10-20% of Slovak exports in the 1990s and the plant still accounts for 15% of Slovak GDP, says John Goodish, the newly appointed head of the business. Had the deal failed, the whole of eastern Slovakia, not just Kosice, would have suffered. The economic hopelessness of Ukraine, locals ghoulishly speculate, would have moved west and swallowed them up. At the very least, the failure of VSZ would have put off Slovakia's hopes of joining the European Union.The US Steel takeover marked the end of a crisis that had been running at VSZ (now called US Steel Kosice) since 1998. The problems for the company began when it was farmed out by Vladimir Meciar, Slovakia's populist-nationalist leader until 1998, to Alexander Rezes, one of his cronies. Mr Rezes and his family, using the steel-producing core of the company as collateral, then went on a spending spree. They bought up a number of unrelated businesses, including Sparta Prague, Central Europe's top football club. In October 1998, the banks threatened VSZ with bankruptcy. A Slovak-born American, Gabriel Eichler, who had overseen the transformation of the Czech state electricity utility, was brought in to sort things out.Mr Eichler's first task was to sell off VSZ's odder acquisitions and fashion it into two parts: the core metal concern, to be sold on to US Steel--which already operated a successful joint venture at the mill--and a remnant VSZ which would hold a number of the mill's suppliers and a few other less saleable concerns, including a large Kosice hospital. Next, Mr Eichler focused on getting the steel-producing core in better shape. That meant firing the worst managers, raising production, getting rid of exclusive supplier contracts, and actually making customers pay for the steel they received. Under Meciarism, much of the steel was never paid for. Stolen? "Let's just say somebody forgot to pay for $200m of it," explains Mr Eichler. It wasn't just the Rezes family benefiting, he carefully adds, but managers, trade unions, and customers too--anyone who knew how to work the system. The results of the overhaul were immediate, say bankers who watched over the process. When it introduced competitive tendering for its suppliers, VSZ saw a 15% drop in prices. "It was not a challenge, but an idiocy," Mr Eichler says wryly. But the turnaround was possible because the steel plant was a good one; new equipment was producing a decent product at competitive prices. US Steel plans to increase production from 3.3m tonnes last year to 4m this, despite a global oversupply. Morale at the plant is high. Managers now speak constantly of customer care. "Quality used to be something of an afterthought," one admits. Workers say they no longer fear for their jobs and profess amazement at being consulted over company decisions. The arrival of US Steel has given new hope to the town of Kosice too. The Slovak government hopes it might become a sort of anchor tenant for foreign investors. The American company is playing its part by setting up an office to attract some of its customers to invest in Slovakia. There is talk of a BMW car plant on the way, and the city says it is hoping that a large electronics company will move in this year, bringing in another 4,000-or-so jobs. It is not hard to see Slovakia's appeal. Its labour is among the cheapest, relative to its skills, in the world. "The biggest asset I have on this line," says Tony Pacilio, a Chicagoan who has been in Kosice for three years with US Steel's joint venture, "is my workers. The equipment is okay, but the workers are way better educated than back home." 