Global steel production drops 2.8%, China’s falls 0.6%Global crude steel production took a fall in October, including in No. 1 steel producer China.Need buying strategies for steel? Request your two-month free trial of MetalMiner's OutlookAccording to statistics compiled by the World Steel Association -- using data from 64 data-reporting countries -- global steel production fell 2.8% in October on a year-over-year basis.October production from the reporting countries totaled 151.5 million tons, down from the 155.8 million tons produced in October 2018.China's crude steel production for the month dropped 0.6% year over year to 81.5 million tons.In September, China's production growth reached 2.2% year over year, while August growth reached 9.3%.With the Chinese winter heating season underway, it remains to be seen how much steel capacity is shuttered for the season.As MetalMiner's Stuart Burns recently noted, the government is taking a closer look at new capacity starts."Demand in top consumer China remains surprisingly robust, yet inventories are falling -- suggesting producers are struggling to keep up with demand," Burns wrote."If that were not enough, Reuters reported new starts are being more vigorously investigated and the approval process reviewed, leading the industry to think supply will be curbed further during the winter heating period this year."A notice jointly issued by the National Development and Reform Commission, Ministry of Industry and Information Technology (MIIT) and the National Bureau of Statistics urges local governments and the State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission (SASAC) to verify the steel firms' capacity, production and fixed-asset investments."Meanwhile, No. 2 producer India put out 9.1 million tons, down 3.4% year over year. Japan produced 8.2 million tons, marking a 4.9% decline.South Korean production reached 6.0 million tons, down 3.5% year over year.U.S. production totaled 7.4 million tons, which marked a 2.0% decline compared with October 2018. The U.S. steel sector's capacity utilization rate remains above the important 80% mark (identified as a marker of industry health when the Trump administration first rolled out Section 232 tariffs on imported steel and aluminum).The American Iron and Steel Institute (AISI) recently reported the U.S. steel sector's capacity utilization rate for the year through Nov. 23 reached 80.3%, having now held at that level over the past month and a half.In the E.U., Germany produced 3.3 million tons, marking a year-over-year decline of 6.8%, as overall recession concerns loom in the E.U.'s industrial stalwart.Italy produced 2.2 million tons, down by 3.7%. France's production fell 10.6% to 1.2 million tons, while Spain's fell 7.6% to 1.2 million tons.Looking for metal price forecasting and data analysis in one easy-to-use platform? Inquire about MetalMiner Insights today!October steel production in Brazil, Turkey and Ukraine was all down by double-digit percentages in each country -- 19.4%, 15.0% and 12.7%, respectively.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service