Gold hedgingBugsEVIDENTLY pleased with his country's strength in risk management, Ghana's finance minister was eager to share lessons learned from Ashanti Goldfields, one of Africa's largest gold producers, in which Ghana's government has a 20% stake. "Ashanti shows that even if a country is not rated AAA or AA, its commodity producers can still hedge successfully," Kwame Peprah told a seminar at the World Bank meetings in Washington, DC, on September 26th. Ahem.On the same day European central banks announced a five-year moratorium on new sales of gold from their reserves. Partly as a result, but also because many investment funds had sold short gold and needed to buy it back in hurry, the price of gold has shot up (see chart). You might expect this to benefit companies that dig the stuff out of the ground. Unfortunately, the ones that had hedged their positions had bet that the price of gold would go only one way--down.So it was with Ashanti. Less than two weeks after the finance minister's hubris, Ashanti revealed that it had racked up a $570m loss on its hedging. Almost half of this is owed immediately to creditors. Ashanti's shares plunged. On October 12th, Lonmin, another gold producer and a minority shareholder, bid for the company--though the bid may fail now that Ghana's energy minister, who supported it, has been sacked.Speculation swirls over other firms that might be in trouble. Shares in other active hedgers, who have committed to sell gold at lower prices than can be fetched now, such as Cambior, a Canadian producer, have also dropped sharply. When South Africa's AngloGold bid this week for Australia's Acacia, both parties were quick to deny that hedging problems were driving the deal.What has gone wrong? Gold has recently lost much of its allure. From 1944 to 1973, its price was pegged by the big central banks. When it was allowed to float, its price soared at first, because of rampant inflation in the 1970s and early 1980s. As the threat of high inflation has receded, so has gold's appeal. Inflation-indexed bonds now provide investors in many countries with better protection. This leaves jewellery demand, exposing gold to the whims of fashion.Recent weakness in the price of gold can also be blamed on supply. Central banks have played a big role. They lend gold bullion reserves to short sellers as well as to gold producers themselves, who then sell the metal in the spot markets. Sales from these "gold loans" have further depressed prices. Some, most recently the Bank of England, have also started to sell some of their gold.Perhaps, then, it is understandable that gold producers recently became used to coping only with falling prices. But that should not disguise the fact that their hedging strategies were often riskier than they seemed. That is partly why there has been much debate among gold producers about whether to hedge. The idea is appealing enough in theory: by selling forward, producers can make their profits higher and more predictable. But although the likes of American Barrick have received plaudits from investors for such a strategy, other firms have been willing to suffer the vicissitudes of the gold market because investors want more exposure to the price of gold.Potential problems arise because hedging is not riskless. Companies can sell their production forward at a fixed price. This insulates them from falling prices, but denies them profits if prices rise. Another approach is to borrow bullion to sell today in the spot market and repay the gold, with interest, from the mines' future production. This gives the producer today's price for tomorrow's production, less interest. But this strategy suffers the same defect. Or hedgers could buy put options, which give them the right to sell gold if it is to their advantage, but walk away if prices rise. But put options are expensive, which is why some companies choose to sell call options to finance the purchase of their puts--a strategy used by Ashanti. Yet selling calls involves another risk: if prices fall, they collect the premium; if they rise, the buyer gets most of the benefit.Is this not merely opportunity loss? After all, since the likes of Ashanti are, quite literally, sitting on a gold mine, surely they could simply deliver gold or borrow money on the back of their reserves? Actually, the problem is more serious. These hedging contracts are marked to the current market price. If the price of gold rises, the gold producers have to cough up the cash to those that sold them the contracts. And unfortunately, since the gold is still in the ground, the company cannot sell it and raise the cash; in cases where companies cannot raise the wherewithal, banks may have good reasons not to lend it to them.There are other reasons for such reluctance, not the least of which are that Ghana is not a country in which international banks are especially keen to lend, and the company is highly leveraged. But the bottom line is this. Companies' gold reserves are a future cashflow; hedging can mean that producers need to stump up cash now. It is a lesson many should take note of. 