Gold miningMr Jonah goes to Jo'burgSEEN from the perfect lawn beside the white colonial-era walls of Sam Jonah's house in Obuasi, Ghana, gold mining seems to be an unchanging and tranquil business. For over a century Ashanti Goldfields has dug gold from deep in the valley below. This hill-top perch, ringed with palms, is a quiet retreat for the man in charge. But later this year, Mr Jonah moves south to the skyscrapers and noisy streets of Johannesburg, to serve as president of South Africa's AngloGold. He will work under AngloGold's boss, Bobby Godsell, who struck a deal last year to buy Ashanti for $1.4 billion in shares.By May, the euphemistically titled "merger"--the gigantic AngloGold, in fact, is swallowing Ashanti--will be completed to form arguably the world's biggest gold miner. With annual production of more than 7m ounces, a market capitalisation of about $11 billion, and probable and proven reserves of 93m ounces, it should outgun all rivals. The combined group expects to earn profits of $1 billion a year, before interest and tax. As the man responsible for the public face of the expanded firm, as well as for overseeing its new expansion in Africa, a lot more is likely to be heard of the charismatic Mr Jonah. Ashanti needed an outsider with deep pockets to keep it digging. AngloGold promises to invest $220m, plus $44m over five years for deep exploration, just for the centrepiece mine, Obuasi Deep. After years of under-investment it will swallow money--quite likely, more than AngloGold has bargained for. Machinery has been endlessly patched up, rows of ramshackle trucks line the workshops, and environmental blunders have denuded nearby hills that must be replanted. Miners in narrow, gloomy tunnels swelter due to the poor ventilation.The cost of reaching large and high-grade deposits 5,000 feet (1,500 metres) below the surface, in order to extend the mine's life by perhaps 40 years, could easily top $500m. Plans to develop some other assets depend on political stability coming to the Democratic Republic of Congo and Zimbabwe. Joint operations, especially at Geita mine in Tanzania, could save perhaps $15m a year, but that is tiny given the demands at Obuasi.It is, though, bearable for cash-rich AngloGold--at least while the gold price is buoyant. It recently touched $430 an ounce, a 15-year high, and it may rise more against a weak dollar. Gold tycoons should be in clover, but both Mr Godsell and Mr Jonah have seen the price flip-flop between $800 and $250 in the past two decades. Such swings can destroy an ill-managed firm, as nearly happened at Ashanti in 1999 when Mr Jonah's plan to hedge against a low gold price went disastrously wrong.That blunder almost bankrupted Ashanti, scared off creditors and ultimately forced Mr Jonah into the arms of his South African buyers. He sums it up coyly: "consolidation is a logical reaction to a very volatile market". Now AngloGold will hedge for the combined firm. Though it has a much better reputation for hedging, it will struggle to cope with the high costs of its large South African mines and the strong rand, which has cut profits and forced many South African miners to shed jobs and talk of closing shafts.A risk remains in Ghana, where politicians must be placated. Last month, opposition parliamentarians objected to AngloGold as a meddling foreign firm. Though the government backs the sale--both as a shareholder and industry regulator--it wants promises of long-term job protection. To minimise future political interference, AngloGold has struck a "stability agreement" to guarantee corporate-tax and royalty rates for the next 15 years.But there might be another way to ensure good relations with Ghana's authorities. If Mr Jonah finds the hurly burly of Johannesburg trying, he could always return to the country where he has long been tipped as a future president. That charming villa in Obuasi would then be in striking distance again.