Gold miningRumbledReutersWhere the rainbow endedTHE hardy, often eccentric, geologists who scour the earth's jungles and deserts for the next mining bonanza have basked in unaccustomed glamour in recent years. Exciting new pastures have opened up for them as governments from West Africa to South-East Asia and the former Soviet Union have eased ownership rules and other barriers to mineral exploration. Their party came to a spectacular end on May 4th when the most glamorous find of all, the Busang deposit, was uncloaked as perhaps the biggest fraud in mining history.For two years Bre-X Minerals,a Calgary mining company, succeeded in persuading geologists and investors that it had made the richest gold discovery of the century in the rainforest of east Borneo. Only three months ago, a Bre-X geologist was confident that the deposit had 200m ounces of gold. At current gold prices, that would have made it worth $70 billion.Bre-X shares, listed on the Toronto stock exchange, zoomed from a few pennies in 1994 to a peak of C$28.65 (after a ten-for-one share split) in spring 1996, giving it a market value of C$6.8 billion ($5 billion). Yet by May 6th Bre-X was back where it started, with a share price of eight cents and a market value of C$19m.The most immediate cause of Bre-X's humiliation is a report submitted on May 4th by Strathcona Mineral Services, a Canadian consultancy brought in to conduct an independent audit of Busang. After testing 175 samples from one Busang area, it concluded that there was "virtually no possibility of an economic gold deposit" there. The gold found in other samples submitted by Bre-X came from somewhere else. Thousands of samples had been tampered with.Until recently many of the world's biggest mining firms had been falling over themselves to get a stake in the Busang project. Barrick Gold, a Canadian firm, came close to being picked by the Indonesian government as a partner. A rival, Placer Dome, made its own approach to Bre-X. Barrick enlisted the help of a company headed by one of President Suharto's daughters. Bre-X reacted by bringing in its own local consultants, a group associated with one of the president's sons. To sort out the unseemly family squabble, President Suharto turned to his golfing partner, Mohamad "Bob" Hasan, a timber tycoon, whose interests now range from mining to motor cars. He was given 30% of the project through a company largely owned by two foundations, each headed by the president himself. Mr Hasan in turn brought in Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold, a big American mining firm which, as part of its "due diligence" investigations, took its own core samples from Busang. In March, while watching a football match in Italy, Mr Hasan took a telephone call telling him that Freeport could find "only insignificant amounts of gold". Around this time, the story took a sinister twist. On March 19th, Michael de Guzman, Bre-X's chief geologist at Busang, a Filipino, fell from a helicopter on his way to the site. He was said to have left a suicide note, blaming his decision on ill health. Even after his funeral, some who knew him insisted he had been murdered. Others guessed that he had faked his own death, so unrecognisable was the decomposing body found in the jungle. Now it seems that Mr de Guzman may have jumped because he knew what was coming.For some, the Busang affair is a minor upset. Bob Hasan, for one, is not running for a skyscraper window. "It's business, you know. Sometimes you make money; sometimes you don't; and sometimes you come out even," he muses. Although he has lost virtually nothing himself, he says he prefers forestry ("At least you can see trees").The biggest losers from the whole episode--after Bre-X shareholders--are the many small entrepreneurial firms, mostly Canadian, that have been spawned by the recent worldwide boom in mining exploration. The speedy and unconventional style of these firms has helped uncover some valuable deposits.Vancouver's Diamond Fields Resources stumbled on a huge nickel, copper and cobalt discovery at Voisey's Bay, Labrador, in the early 1990s, and sold out in 1996 to Inco, the western world's biggest nickel producer, for over $3 billion. Another Vancouver-based company, Arequipa Resources, found a promising gold deposit at Pierina in Peru before being taken over by Barrick Gold for $790m. Admittedly, life was getting tougher for the small fry even before Bre-X went wrong. The sagging gold price has tarnished all but the lowest-cost projects. Many people were starting to balk at sky-high market valuations of companies whose only meaningful asset was a licence to dig holes in some obscure part of the world. But a further shake-out is now likely; big mining companies will rely more on their own geologists and be less willing to pay hefty premiums for someone else's hole in the ground. Jim Bob Moffett, Freeport's chairman, now says he would not accept even an angel's word on a pot of gold in the jungle.