Greek Debt Crisis Roils LME Prices, Senate Unveils 6-Year Transportation BillToday, the Greek debt crisis touched all markets, including commodities, and a bipartisan group of US Senators unveiled the long-term highway bill that the construction industry has long clamored for.Commodities could not escape the market turmoil caused by Greece's capital controls and a hefty drop in Chinese equities, with the stronger dollar and risk aversion hitting raw materials led by oil and metals.Webinar TODAY! Are You Speculating When You Buy Spot Metals?On the London Metal Exchange, amid a sea of red for industrial metals prices, nickel plumbed a six-year low. The metal, an ingredient for stainless steel, fell 4.6% to $11,855 a metric ton, while aluminum was off 1.5%, copper fell 0.5% and tin dropped 2.5%.A bipartisan coalition of senators on Tuesday introduced a six-year bill that would boost overall spending on US roads and bridges.Working against a July 31 deadline, the senators acknowledged that it will be an uphill effort to corral their Senate colleagues and the House to pass a bill.The six-year bill would increase highway spending by almost 13% over the current level, bumping it up by more than $2 billion each year. It includes a new program to spread more than $2 billion a year among states to invest in improvements for freight facilities that move goods and products.It further streamlines project approval, cutting federal red tape that state officials say has slowed projects down. It holds flat at $819 million the money for pedestrian and cycling improvements and for roadway landscaping. Senator Barbara Boxer (D.-Calif.) joined Sen. James Inhofe (R-Okla.), the committee's chairman, and Sens. David Vitter (R-La.) and Thomas R. Carper (D-Del.) in writing the bill. The cost of the bill is estimated to be about $350 billion and would require new funding if it is passed.Free Download: Latest Metal Price Trends in the June MMI ReportYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service