Heavy Anti-Dumping Duties Placed on Cut-To-Length Plate From Brazil, South Africa and TurkeyThe Commerce Department placed initial anti-dumping tariffs on imports of carbon and alloy steel cut-to-length plate (CTL plate) from Brazil, South Africa, and Turkey late Friday.MetalMiner Price Benchmarking: Current and Historical Prices for the Metals You BuyFor the purpose of an anti-dumping investigation, dumping occurs when a foreign company sells a product in the U.S. at less than its fair value.n the Brazil investigation, Commerce preliminarily found that dumping has occurred by mandatory respondents, Companhia Siderurgica Nacional and Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA, at a preliminary dumping margin of 74.52%. The dumping margin for the mandatory respondents was based on adverse facts available (AFA) as a result of their failure to cooperate in the investigation. Commerce assigned a preliminary dumping margin of 74.52% for all other producers/exporters in Brazil.In the South Africa investigation, Commerce preliminarily found that dumping has occurred by the mandatory respondent, Evraz Highveld Steel and Vanadium Corp., at a preliminary dumping margin of 94.14%. The dumping margin for the mandatory respondent was based on AFA as a result of its failure to cooperate in the investigation. Commerce calculated a preliminary dumping margin of 87.72% for all other producers/exporters in South Africa.In the Turkey investigation, Commerce preliminarily found that dumping occurred by the mandatory respondent, Eregli Demir ve Celik Fabrikalari T.A.S., at a preliminary dumping margin of 50%. The dumping margin for the mandatory respondent was based on AFA as a result of its failure to cooperate in the investigation. Commerce calculated a preliminary dumping margin of 42.02% for all other producers/exporters in Turkey.As a result of the preliminary affirmative determinations, Commerce will instruct U.S. Customs and Border Protection to collect cash deposits based on these preliminary rates.Critical circumstances were alleged with respect to imports of CTL plate from Brazil and Turkey. On September 7, Commerce preliminarily found that critical circumstances exist with respect to all exporters from Brazil and Turkey. Consequently, CBP will be instructed to impose provisional measures retroactively on entries of CTL plate from Brazil and Turkey effective 90 days prior to publication of the preliminary determinations in the Federal Register.Two-Month Trial: Metal Buying OutlookThe petitioners are ArcelorMittal USA LLC, Nucor Corporation and SSAB Enterprises, LLC. Just last week, Commerce initially placed heavier duties (210%) on imports of cut-to-length plate from China.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service