In America’s fiery furnaceFOR a glimpse of what is wrong with America's steel industry, drive along the southern shore of Lake Michigan. In the hour or so it takes to get from Gary, Indiana, to Chicago you will pass nearly half a dozen full-scale integrated steel plants, each with its own supplier network, inventory, production schedules, marketing and sales forces. In any other industry, somebody might have forged a single firm out of so many operations. But, as steelmen will tell you in sombre tones, their business is different. American steel has enjoyed protection of one sort or another for most of the past two decades. And this has allowed it to put off much-needed consolidation.Now protection has reared its ugly head once more. Citing the flood of cheap imports from East Asia and the former Soviet Union, steel bosses announced on September 10th that they will sue the offenders for dumping, in breach of America's trade laws. With support from the steelworkers' union, they put their case to William Daley, the commerce secretary, and Charlene Barshefsky, America's top trade official. Both promised swift action.It would be a mistake to laugh off such grumbling. It comes after a few years' strong sales and profits at a time when big steel had appeared to have at last weaned itself off government help. Steel is not alone in suffering from the turmoil in emerging markets. America's trade deficit grows wider by the month, and many industries claim to be feeling the pain (see article). Paul Wilhelm, president of US Steel, America's biggest steel firm, says that "the steel industry is just the front line of what will be a growing number of industries lining up to defend themselves."It is too soon to tell how American trade officials will judge the steelmen's case. Imports, which amounted to a record 31m tons last year, reached 3.7m in June alone. Yet recent devaluations make it unusually hard to prove that they are being dumped. Masahiro Iwano of Goldman Sachs, an investment bank, thinks that at an exchange rate of around Y=140 to the dollar, it becomes very hard to show that Japanese steel makers, for instance, are breaking American law. And even if dumping can be proved, it will take some time to show that American steel makers are being harmed by it--a necessary test before a final ruling on duties can be made--given their profits in the first half of 1998.Yet the mere threat of trade sanctions is likely to crimp imports. Hank Barnette, chairman of Bethlehem Steel, reels off a list of "injuries" that he claims the American industry can prove right now: drops in sales volumes, depressed prices, lower employment levels, declining productivity, lost orders and even decreased profitability. Half a dozen firms have already laid off workers or cut production, he says. It will take a long time to resolve such claims. Nevertheless countries under investigation fear that if a final ruling goes against them, they will face huge penalties. In anticipation, they will probably raise prices immediately, whether guilty or not.Even if big integrated steel firms manage to rebuff steel imports, they face two tougher threats. The first is the encroachment of "mini-mills", which use electric-arc furnaces and, usually, scrap metal (rather than giant blast furnaces and iron ore). For years, the big steel makers pooh-poohed such operators as small fry capable of making only low-quality steel. Yet Nucor, the most succesful mini-mill firm, has been relentlessly advancing on US Steel (see chart); it is set to become America's biggest steel maker by the end of next year. The technology is so cheap and flexible that mini-mills, which accounted for only a fifth of American production 20 years ago, now make up almost two-fifths. And although their output is still mostly low-grade and low-margin, the technology for making fancier steels is advancing rapidly.Some big steel makers have tried to see off the threat by running their own mini-mills. But they have found that it is not easy to copy Nucor, especially in making higher grades of steel. Trico, a joint venture between America's LTV, Japan's Sumitomo and British Steel, has struggled with its mini-mill in Alabama, losing nearly $40m during the first half of this year; Nucor, meanwhile, has posted profits every quarter for the past two decades. That is because Nucor's success is chiefly "cultural, not technical", according to Ken Iverson, its chairman. Although he calls his style "just common sense", he manages to use the latest technology, operate it at full capacity and pay a non-unionised workforce handsomely. Even other mini-mill managers find that combination hard--let alone integrated firms with layers of bureaucracy and entrenched unions.The second threat to big steel stems from globalisation. Earlier this year, Ispat, the closest thing the world has to a global steel firm, made its first big American acquisition when it bought an integrated producer called Inland Steel. "We plan to be a key consolidator of the American steel industry," asserts Laxmi Mittal, Ispat's boss and the architect of its strategy. By reorganising Inland's plants to use slab from his facilities in Mexico, Mr Mittal has already lifted production from just over 5m tonnes to nearly 6m. And by comparing the prices Inland pays with Ispat's best prices worldwide (it is one of the biggest buyers of the industry's inputs), he says Ispat has reduced costs on products such as blast-furnace components by up to 20%.The pressure could come from customers too. Dick McLaughlin of Beddows & Company, a consultancy, notes that General Motors has shown interest in awarding steel firms long-term, global supply contracts; Ford has made similar noises. Although no American firm could currently deliver such a contract, Ispat soon might: it already produces, sources and sells lower grades of steel all over the world, and it is expanding into the high-quality steel that car makers demand. Mr Mittal says he has received similar overtures from such firms as Daimler-Chrysler and Whirlpool, which makes household appliances.The American industry has held back from consolidation even as Europe and Latin America have forged ahead with it. Domestic demand has helped, by its unexpected strength--it has grown by nearly 7% a year since 1991, after almost no growth during the 1980s. As a result, even the weakest steel makers have hobbled along.But the biggest obstacle to consolidation may have been the very breathing-space created by protection. Mr Mittal observes that nobody ever goes bust in the American steel industry. Even the few plants shut down by such big firms as US Steel and Armco have risen from the ashes as independent steel makers--such as Utah's Geneva and Alabama's Gulf State. This is the best reason for believing that the current clamour for help may end up hurting the steel industry.To be fair, steel makers have not been idle. The industry has spent $50 billion modernising its plant and equipment over the past two decades and shed over 300,000 workers, nearly three-quarters of its labour force. Productivity has grown at twice the average rate for all American manufacturing. America's steel industry boasts average labour productivity of less than four man-hours per ton of steel--down from about ten man-hours in 1980. That beats even Germany and Japan. Yet it may still not be good enough: the best mini-mill firms can make a ton of steel using less than one man-hour of labour. Mini-mills still cannot produce the best grades of steel satisfactorily. But Mr Iverson has no doubt that, not too far in the future, they will overcome that hurdle too.In time, integrated producers will be able to maintain an undisputed advantage only in markets for the best-quality, highest value-added products, such as those used in cars and household appliances. Such steel demands more labour, both during processing and afterwards, in technical and sales support, which plays to the strengths of integrated steel firms. Yet this niche, according to Scott Morrison of Donaldson, Lufkin and Jenrette, an investment bank, might soon account for only a tenth of the American steel market by volume--a far cry from the nearly 60% share of production now taken by integrated producers--and perhaps a fifth by value. And, crucially, the niche can support only a few, extremely efficient integrated makers.So is the much-trumpeted consolidation now inevitable? A vigorous "yes" comes from US Steel's Mr Wilhelm. That is surprising, for many blame the cautious managers at integrated firms for big steel's failure to go global. "Well, I'm not saying that we weren't parochial in our thinking," Mr Wilhelm concedes, " but the real reason consolidation hasn't happened is that we've had no real catalyst." And, he adds quietly, that catalyst just might be today's rush of imports.