India’s Anti-Dumping Measures Pay Off As Steel Exports RiseZerophoto/Adobe StockIndia's protectionist measures to safeguard its steel industry seem to be paying off.Benchmark Your Current Metal Price by Grade, Shape and Alloy: See How it Stacks UpAs reported consistently by AG Metal Miner, the Indian government, responding to the call of its steelmakers, had time and again imposed various forms of anti-dumping measures and fines to stop cheap imports of steel -- especially from the world's steel manufacturing leader, China.Along with the U.S. and Brazil, India was said to be one of the world's leading initiators of anti-dumping investigations, according to the World Trade Organization (WTO).Well, now, all this has resulted in India's steel exports doubling to 8.2 million tons and imports have been slashed by about one-third in 2016-17.As per a report by the Press Trust of India (PTI), quoting from portions of the released Economic Survey, the rise in exports of steel could also wipe away the excess capacity built up in the steel sector. The mid-year survey by the government said steel imports had declined in 2016-17, while exports of steel had doubled.Alloy imports dipped by 36.6% to 7.4 million tons in 2016- 17 against 11.7 million tons in the previous fiscal year. Exports doubled to 8.2 million tons last fiscal year, over 4.1 million tons in the corresponding year.The news was welcomed by steel companies like Tata Steel. T.V. Narendran, managing director for Tata Steel India and South East Asia, told newsmen that steel demand in India was increasing, making it just right to make future investments. Stability was being witnessed in the steel sector globally, though it had faced some problem two years ago, Narendran told reporters.Ironically, much of Indian steel joy stems from its traditional rival China, where there's been a visible improvement in the economy -- which meant much of its steel being produced was once again being used within the country. It was against the backdrop of China's economic slowdown that the global steel industry had faced distress due to decline in global demand.The Indian survey report said, in response to the dumping of cheap imports, the government in 2016 introduced a host of measures like raising Basic Customs Duty, imposition of Minimum Import Price (MIP) and anti-dumping duties in order to shield domestic producers. The government imposed the MIP for steel in February 2016 for a period of one year.On April 12, 2016, India initiated countervailing duty investigation concerning imports of certain hot-rolled and cold-rolled stainless steel flat products originating in China.According to the WTO, India's share in total global steel exports increased from 1.1% in 2000 to 2.8% in 2016. During this period, China's share in total steel exports rose from 3.7% in 2000 to 19.2% in 2016. Japan's share in total steel exports in 2000 which was 12.2%, but fell to 9.1% in 2016.Free Download: The July 2017 MMI ReportMeanwhile, the U.S. share in total steel imports was 17.0% in 2000, but has since come down to 12.1% in 2016.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service