India and goldForeseeing the futureJASWANT SINGH, the Indian finance minister, declared in his recent budget that his country would become the gold-trading capital of the world. That met a gloomy response in Mumbai, where most of India's gold is traded. "The gold trade is dead," was one dejected trader's response, despite a cut in import duties on gold announced on February 28th, and the removal a week earlier of a decades-old bar on futures trading in over 50 commodities, including the yellow metal.The Indian passion for buying gold, mostly for jewellery, has cooled lately as prices have risen. Figures from the World Gold Council show that Indian consumer demand for gold fell by 36% to 363 tonnes in the first nine months of 2002, compared with 571 tonnes in the same period a year earlier. More people are now selling their jewellery than buying, says the Mumbai trader. Global manufacturing of gold jewellery fell by 12% last year to an eight-year low, because of a slump in such price-sensitive markets as India and the Middle East. But there was a marked rise in global investment demand for bullion, according to Gold Fields Mineral Services, a London-based precious-metals consultancy. Even as a weak dollar and fear of war with Iraq have encouraged investors elsewhere in the world to buy gold, demand in the metal's biggest market has remained dull. The absence in India of speculative interest in gold is partly explained by the government's controls on trading gold futures, which were imposed in the 1960s. Most of the gold trade was illegal until the late 1990s, when import restrictions were lifted. Even then, jewellers could not hedge the price of the gold they bought for processing, and the banks allowed to import gold--such as State Bank of India, Bank of Nova Scotia, HSBC, and ABN Amro--could not trade or lend it.There may be around 10,000 tonnes of gold in India, mostly in jewellery form, according to some estimates. That would constitute the biggest gold hoard in the world. So far, attempts to encourage consumers to make their gold work harder for them have met with little success. Four years ago the State Bank of India launched a gold deposit scheme, promising 1.25% annually for three- to seven-year gold deposits. It collected only seven tonnes, because much of the gold on offer was of uncertain quality, and because those who had bought gold with black-market money feared tax inspection.The freeing of gold futures should encourage more European banks to enter the Indian market and so help those in the jewellery business to manage their risks better. To become a global gold hub, India needs a bullion exchange, complete with market-makers, says Savak Tarapore, a former deputy governor of the Reserve Bank of India. More important, perhaps, is the need to scotch the notion that, in a poor country, it is sinful to trade gold.