Indian sojourn, continuedThree faces of India (and two faces of Tata)I STARTED the day on Tuesday by visiting Tata's steelworks in Jamshedpur. I found it awe-inspiring. The scale is mind-blowing: 2.5 hectares of industrial muscle. Even more mind-blowing is the steelmaking process itself: the giant cauldrons of molten steel, the huge trains shifting raw materials about, the fashioning of the molten steel into iron sheets. Three things struck me in particular. First, the relatively small number of people involved. Though based in a relatively poor company, this is a high-tech, high-skill, highly mechanised process. Second, the intelligence and enthusiasm of the people I talked to. These people love to talk about steel! And they love to recite war stories from their visits to other steel mills! (I apologise if I lost the plot every now and again). And third, the smoothness of the organisation. Every process seemed to be perfectly choreographed, and everybody seemed to know their role. Tata Steel has reduced its workforce from 78,000 in the mid-1990s to 35,000 today, while quadrupling the amount of steel it produces. We need a similar revolution in the public sector.I spent the afternoon on a whirlwind tour of Kolkata, and a somewhat eccentric one, owing to linguistic problems. It is hard for even the most hard-hearted anarcho-capitalist not to be shocked by the poverty, and discombobulated by the confusion. You come across inexplicable things all the time. I watched a cheerful-looking gentleman wash himself carefully in the river, covering himself with a soapy lather, only to empty a huge bag of rubbish into the water when he had finished. On the positive side, I was struck by the omnipresence of entrepreneurialism. Even the most desperate people were constantly busy. People sit at the side of the road sewing on their Singer sewing machines or cobbling shoes. Truck stops, of which there were an inordinate number, generate service economies, with people selling tea, food and, one suspects, a lot else besides. People also preserve their dignity among the squalor: many women are brightly dressed, and a striking number of children wear smart school uniforms. You would not find the same energy or sartorial dignity in a British inner city.The queue to get through security at Kolkata airport was more than a thousand people long--a grumpy fellow-passenger blamed it on the city being run by success-hating, business-loathing, cretinous and corrupt Communists--but thereafter I was transported into a different India. The flight was on time. Mumbai airport was shiny and new. A driver was waiting. And he whisked me, via a new and almost traffic-free road, to the Taj Mahal Palace, which is about as close to heaven on earth as you can get. The beautiful people of the new India, who were pouring out of the hotel when I arrived, really are beautiful; and the Taj's reputation for hospitality is richly deserved.All this obviously raises the question of what a single conglomerate is doing running steel mills and luxury hotels. But here is a conjecture, driven, admittedly, by Taj-induced goodwill. Peter Drucker argued that the first job of a company is to create a customer. Most Western bosses would probably say that the first job of a company is to create a profit. But in the emerging world--and particularly the emerging India where Tata Steel and the Taj Palace were created a century ago--the first job of a company is to create order amid chaos. In their different ways, the steelworks and the luxury hotel are fortresses against the surrounding madness.