Industry and the financial crisisMeanwhile, in the real economy...BloombergIT IS about as far as you can get from the woes of Wall Street and this week's dramatic rescues of American and European banks. The mucky business of digging ore out of the ground, shipping it across the oceans and turning it into steel, the feedstock of industry, is at the other end of the economic food chain from the trade in credit-default swaps, collateralised debt obligations and other esoteric financial instruments. So the recent fall in raw-material prices and the decline in shipping costs indicate just how far-reaching the consequences of the global financial crisis will be for the global economy.Since the early summer the prices of various kinds of steel have fallen by 20-70%, iron ore is down by a third and the key rate for bulk shipping of commodities such as iron ore, coal and grain is down by more than four-fifths. There is even talk of grain cargoes piling up in ports in the Americas. Their buyers' letters of credit have not been honoured, because of a lack of confidence in the banks that underwrite them. At least one Australian producer has had the same problem with iron-ore shipments. And shipowners are struggling to finance new vessels they have ordered.The most spectacular reflection of falling activity has been the Baltic Dry Index (BDI), which traces prices for shipping bulk cargoes such as iron ore around the world from producers such as Brazil and Australia to markets in America, Europe and China. The index has plunged 86% after hitting a record high of 11,793 points in late May (see chart). It fell by 11% on October 15th alone, to its lowest level since February 2003. The BDI is a leading indicator of international trade and, by extension, of economic activity. In the past couple of years the index has been driven up by the boom in China, as the world's fastest-growing big economy sucks in raw materials in bulk-carrying ships and pumps out finished products, which are exported in huge container vessels.Some industry forecasters predict a recovery in the BDI of about 30% in the fourth quarter, but further weakening is foreseen in late 2009, extending into 2010. This is due both to the slowing growth of world demand, and the arrival of new capacity following the recent boom in shipbuilding, which will cause supply to grow faster than demand. There are also signs of slowing growth in the market for the container ships that take China's manufactured goods to Western markets. The latest forecasts show growth in demand for container shipments from Asia to Europe falling from 15% a year to barely 5%. Shares in shipping companies fell sharply this week in response to the plunge in the BDI.Steel prices have also been falling fast from record highs. In America the price of coil steel, used to make cars and white goods, has fallen by 20% since May. The price of steel billets, which are traded on the London Metal Exchange (though most steel deliveries are governed by inter-company contracts), has fallen even further, having tumbled by 70% since May. As prices fall, steelmakers are moving to cut production. ArcelorMittal, the industry leader, was one of the first to move in September, signalling a cut of 10-15% in production during the third quarter. The company said the cuts were a temporary measure until inventories fell. Since then, however, Russian and Chinese steelmakers have also announced cuts. Severstal, Russia's biggest producer, is cutting by 25% in Russia and by 30% in some of its western European and American mills. China's biggest steelmaker, Baosteel, is reported to be reducing output by 10% this quarter, and the four second-tier producers (Shougang, Hebei, Anyang and Shandong) by 20%. Shock and oreAlthough China's iron-ore imports in the first nine months of the year were up 22% on 2007, there are fears among Australian mining firms that the cuts in Chinese steel production could presage a pause in China's boom. Mount Gibson, an Australian producer, has warned that stockpiles of ore are mounting up in China, and says some of its customers have asked it to delay shipments. Iron-ore prices on the spot market have fallen by roughly half since the beginning of the year, to $100 a tonne or less. The prices of copper, nickel and zinc have also fallen by around half this year, and aluminium is down by a third. Those drops, in turn, have battered the share prices of mining companies.BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto, two giants that are big exporters of iron ore from Australia to China, agree that China's appetite for natural resources is moderating. But both say they are among the most efficient producers, and so will not be badly hit by falling demand. They do expect rivals with higher costs to rein in their output of iron ore and other minerals, however.To some extent, that is already happening. Ferrexpo, a Ukrainian iron-ore producer, has said it will postpone a decision about whether to expand. Rio Tinto itself has reduced output at one of its Chinese aluminium mills; China's other smelters, it maintains, are in worse shape. Alcoa, a big American aluminium firm which reported a sharp fall in profits earlier this month, has shut a smelter in America and plans to halt investment on projects that are not near completion. Other firms have scrapped planned nickel and zinc mines. More of the same is likely the longer prices stay at this level--especially when hedges that protect some higher-cost producers expire.Nonetheless, the bigger mining firms are far from despair. Alberto Calderon of BHP points out that the Baltic Dry Index is extremely volatile; in his view, it is not a good indicator of the long-term prospects of the mining industry. He expects the Chinese economy to keep growing by 6-9% a year for the next five years. Rio Tinto is even more sanguine: it does not foresee China's growth falling below 8%. Tom Albanese, its boss, says the Chinese economy is merely "pausing for breath".Both firms point out that some metals, such as copper, are still in short supply, and that the credit crunch will only make it harder to finance new mines. By delaying expansion and squeezing marginal producers, it may actually sow the seeds for a recovery in metals prices sooner than most analysts expect. At any rate, BHP is determined to press ahead with its hostile bid for Rio Tinto--an indication, presumably, that it still thinks raw materials is a good business to be in.