Japan responds to ChinaRare actionNo rare earths, no mobile phonesTWO decades of economic impotence have convinced many observers that Japan is cautious and slow to change. But the country can move quickly when sufficiently provoked. China is hoarding rare earths--17 elements that, although plentiful in nature, are costly and time-consuming to extract and have highly toxic by-products. Four months ago, during a minor territorial dispute, China was accused of suspending shipments of these elements to Japan entirely. Since then, Japan Inc has sprung into action. Rare earths are used in high-tech products from computer chips and televisions to cars and missiles. China has one-third of the world's reserves but accounts for 97% of current production, having squeezed out other suppliers with low prices in the 1990s. It is restricting exports to induce foreign technology firms to place operations inside China. The quota for January to June this year was cut by 35%.Japan imports more rare earths than any other country. Its electronics, fine-chemicals and car industries rely on them. A disruption of supply could paralyse the Japanese economy as much as an oil embargo or food blockade. And because Japan dominates some of the technological processes that use rare earths--such as polishing hard-drive platters with cerium oxide--interrupted access would be felt worldwide. This very clear threat has forced a response.The big trading houses such as Sojitz, Sumitomo and Mitsubishi are securing alternative supplies, supported by state financing. Companies such as Toyota, Hitachi, Nidec and TDK are working to reduce or eliminate the rare-earth elements needed in devices. Recycling programmes are being studied. The government earmarked $1 billion from a stimulus package in November to secure supplies, including funding university research and projects such as robotic deep-sea mining.A national stockpile of the kind that already exists for rice, cereals and petrol has been mooted. There is even talk of creating a generously funded agency to acquire stakes in non-Chinese producers, possibly using the country's vast foreign-exchange reserves (at $1 trillion, the world's largest after China's). Japan's prime minister has met his Vietnamese and Mongolian counterparts to discuss new production. Japan has been suddenly spurred to action before. The environmental crisis in the 1960s, the oil shocks of the 1970s and the strong yen in the 1980s rallied bureaucrats, politicians, business leaders, the media and the public. High energy prices forced Japan to become one of the world's most energy-efficient countries.Japan will remain dependent on Chinese rare earths for some time. The country's resource mandarins say they have no specific target for reducing this dependency, though they reaffirm an earlier goal that Japan should control 50% of its mineral needs, including rare earths, by 2030. But the shock seems to have reinvigorated the trade ministry. Older bureaucrats are misty-eyed for the glory days when Japan was the economic power to fear.