Japan's steel industryA changed gameTHE five-month battle that culminated in the news late last month that the world's two biggest steel companies, Mittal Steel and Arcelor, both headquartered in Europe, were to merge, has put the wind up Japanese steelmakers half a world away. Until recently, they could persuade themselves that they were on a roll. Starting in the late 1990s, a wave of consolidation refashioned Japan's fragmented steel industry. The process was driven by high debts, poor profitability and by carmakers' threats to cut their number of steel suppliers. Long-standing rivalries were put aside as steelmakers were crunched into five main groups. The timing was perfect: the merged groups, with their expertise in making high-grade steel products, have since prospered from booming car- and ship-building industries at home and, abroad, from a seemingly insatiable appetite for steel in China. In particular, Nippon Steel, Japan's biggest steel group and hitherto the world's third-largest, appeared to be thriving.But the proposed $32 billion sale of Arcelor to Mittal upsets all the old assumptions. Arcelor Mittal will be the world's biggest steelmaker by stockmarket value, revenue and output. At roughly 110m tonnes a year, its output will be comparable to the combined total of Japan's four biggest steel groups--Nippon Steel, JFE Holdings, Sumitomo Metal and Kobe Steel. Overnight, Nippon Steel, even if it now becomes the world's second-biggest steelmaker, will have gone from being a close competitor of Mittal and Arcelor to being barely a third as big, measured by output. To make matters worse, Nippon Steel previously struck technology-sharing deals with Arcelor, among others, in order to be able to follow Toyota and other carmakers into Europe. The future of such ventures is now in doubt.Accordingly, Japan's steelmakers are now wondering how vulnerable they are to foreign takeover--after all, changes to Japan's corporate law next spring will, in theory, enable foreign-listed firms to use their own shares for the first time when bidding for Japanese companies. Nippon Steel is taking no chances. In recent weeks it has introduced poison pills designed to ward off foreign bidders. On July 4th it said it was buying back up to 4%, or Y=100 billion ($873m), of its own shares, the second such buyback this year. It has raised to 15% its stake in a maker of ball bearings, Sanyo Special Steel, and is expected to buy shares in other specialist steelmakers to create a web of interests. And, at a time when the trend among Japanese companies has been to reduce the stakes many have long held in each other, Nippon Steel has been increasing its cross-shareholdings with Sumitomo Metal and Kobe Steel.To some observers, such actions appear not only to be old-fashioned, but also unnecessary. Cultural and regulatory barriers in Japan to a foreign hostile bid may well prove insurmountable, even for a cash-rich bidder. Besides, high share valuations, most analysts agree, would put Nippon Steel and most other Japanese groups well out of reach. Nippon Steel presumably knows this. So one theory is that it is trying to impress upon Japan's Fair Trade Commission the need for yet more consolidation among Japanese steelmakers. Currently, the commission appears to think that concentration in the domestic market for steel has gone far enough. Some Japanese steelmen, on the other hand, think that the pan-Asian market for steel, not the domestic one, should form the basis for that judgment--the market, in short, from which Japanese steelmakers have hitherto prospered but which the new Arcelor Mittal group might now be poised to attack. 