Japanese steelOn a rollNIPPON STEEL'S Yawata works on the island of Kyushu might stand as a symbol of post-war Japan. In its heyday in the early 1970s, when the economy was still booming and costs were low, the Yawata works employed 46,000. Just 6,400 people work there today. The country's big blast-furnace steel makers have been elbowed aside by minimills, which are technologically more advanced, and by rivals from countries where costs are lower. There is one catch with this tale: it is not true. Although employment has indeed fallen in Japan's five integrated steel makers, they are thriving. Against all expectations, Nippon Steel, Kawasaki Steel, Sumitomo Metal Industries, Kobe Steel and Nippon Kashuha have brought production costs to within a whisker of the world's most efficient producer, South Korea's Pohang Iron & Steel Company (POSCO). The five can now churn out hot-rolled coil at about $300 a tonne compared with POSCO's $270 a tonne. When shipping costs are taken into account, Japan's integrated steel makers are, says Masahiro Iwano, an analyst at the Tokyo branch of Goldman Sachs, competitive in the Japanese market. With POSCO's wage costs rising, Japanese steel has even begun to export more steel abroad.As their prices have become more competitive, the big five have seen their profits recover. Having lost money in aggregate for three years after 1992, the steel makers have since clawed their way back. Makoto Hiranuma, of Nomura Securities, expects their profits for the year to March 31st 1998 to be above Y=200 billion ($1.6 billion). Part of the reason is the yen's recent fall against other currencies, but the steel makers have also restructured and cut costs.That is a novelty in Japan. In the late 1980s steel makers' costs rose sharply, despite vows to restructure. After 1993, however, they attacked their inefficiencies with vim. In the three years that followed the integrated steel makers cut costs by a third. Their efforts have not slackened since.Wage costs have been a particular target. Of old, the steel makers would have shifted workers into subsidiaries; today, all have early-retirement programmes. In 1993, having relied on retirement to cut its payroll, Nippon Steel still had 50,500 employees. By the end of this year it will have only 32,600. In total, the five steel companies will have lost a quarter of their 171,600 employees between 1993 and this year. Nor are blue-collar workers the only ones to go. For the first time, so has the more expensive sarariman. Nippon Steel has shed 40% of its 10,000 white-collar workers since 1993. Japanese steel makers have also taken another tack. They now use cheaper raw materials, shifting, for example, from coking to steaming coal. They have also shut blast furnaces so that the remaining plants operate closer to their full capacity, which results in lower fixed costs per tonne. Since 1986 Nippon Steel has closed four blast furnaces, including one of the two at the Yawata works. And steel production is increasing. In 1993 Nippon Steel churned out 25.1m tonnes of steel. It wants to increase production to 29m tonnes by 2003. Increased automation, especially at ports, has also improved labour productivity. Nippon Steel has reduced the number of days in which it can fulfil an order of cold-rolled steel from 40 days in 1993 to 25. Altogether labour productivity has increased by some 40% since 1993. Such savings have had a large impact, because the big firms have also moved upmarket. Nippon Steel is able to charge about 30% more for its mix of higher-quality products than POSCO, which produces mainly commodity steel (80% of its production is basic girders and the like for the construction industry). Japan's minimills have also been left behind, stuck producing lower-margin steel. In total, 43% of Japanese demand is from the construction industry; less than a fifth is for cars. By contrast, a third of the production of the big five is high-quality sheet steel for cars, while construction-steel makes up less than 30% of their output. That is the industry's best protection against a fall in demand for construction-steel when the government eventually spends less on public works. Big steel makers are already benefiting from increased exports of Japanese cars and electronics goods as a result of the weak yen. And the Japanese should not be too hurt by currency turmoil elsewhere in Asia. Although steel demand in South-East Asia will grow more slowly than many were predicting, supply will also grow less fast, as existing mills run into trouble and new projects are shelved. Four South Korean steel companies have gone bust this year. Thailand and Malaysia have both cancelled two new steel mills.