Lead Price Forecast, May 2017 Global Demand to GrowMacro photo of a piece of lead oreThe International Lead and Zinc Study Group released its Spring 2017 Meetings/Forecasts, which found that global demand for refined lead metal will increase 2.3% this year to 11.39 million tons.The main reason? Further development in Chinese usage, which is projected to grow 4.3%.Want a short- and medium-term buying outlook for aluminum, copper, tin, lead, zinc, nickel and several forms of steel? Subscribe to our monthly buying outlook reports!The ILZSG report states: "After increasing by a robust 9.8% in 2016, usage of lead metal in Europe is expected to remain unchanged in 2017. A stable outlook is also foreseen in Japan and the Republic of Korea. In both India and the United States modest growth of 1.5% is predicted."Furthermore, the ILZSG report states that global lead mine production is projected to increase 4.3% to 4.92 million tons this year, due in part to growth in China and increases in Canada, Mexico, India, Greece and Kazakhstan.The report concluded on lead: "After rising by 2.8% in 2016, world refined lead metal production is predicted to increase by a further 2.2% to 11.39 million tonnes in 2017. This will be primarily a consequence of higher output in China and India with smaller increases forecast in Belgium and the United States where Aqua Metals recently commissioned their new used lead-acid battery recycling plant in Nevada."How will lead and base metals fare in 2017? You can find a more in-depth copper price forecast and outlook in our brand new Monthly Metal Buying Outlook report. For a short- and long-term buying strategy with specific price thresholds:hi interested in lead pricesYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service