LME Delays New Precious Metals Contracts; Lighthizer Clears First Hurdle to ConfirmationThe launch of the London Metal Exchange's new precious metals contracts will be delayed until July 10, more than a month later than previously announced, it said on Monday.Benchmark Your Current Metal Price by Grade, Shape and Alloy: See How it Stacks UpThe new gold and silver contracts, a mix of daily and monthly contracts designed to enable industrial users to hedge specific dates, were due to go live in early June.President Donald Trump's nominee for U.S. trade representative cleared a Senate committee on Tuesday, bringing the administration closely to enacting its full trade policy.Washington lawyer Robert Lighthizer's nomination cleared the Senate Finance Committee 26-0. Lighthizer is seen as an ally of the manufacturing industries. The panel also voted to approve a legal waiver for Lighthizer from a 1995 law that prohibits people who did work on behalf of foreign governments from serving as the top U.S. trade negotiator.Benchmark Your Current Metal Price by Grade, Shape and Alloy: See How it Stacks Up"Bob Lighthizer understands the issues that the U.S. steel industry faces today and we are certain he will make an outstanding United States Trade Representative (USTR)," said Thomas Gibson, president and CEO of the American Iron & Steel Institute, the largest trade group of North American steelmakers. "We thank Senator Hatch and the other members of the Senate Finance Committee for holding an executive session to progress Bob's nomination. American manufacturers need a qualified USTR and we urge the Senate to promptly confirm Bob Lighthizer."Lighthizer's confirmation now moves on to the full Senate.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service