Making steelThe Carnegie from CalcuttaWHEN Venezuela privatised its Sidor steel plant, just before Christmas, Lakshmi Mittal faced a dilemma. On the one hand, Mr Mittal wants Ispat, his own steel empire, to grow and, with a capacity of 3.7m tonnes, Sidor would have added a quarter to its size. It was just the sort of acquisition that has transformed his steel business from a division of an obscure family metals firm in Calcutta into one of the world's ten largest. On the other, there are fewer such opportunities these days, and there were a host of other bidders interested in Sidor. If Mr Mittal bid high, he risked straying from the low-cost formula on which Ispat has thrived. Mr Mittal resisted temptation and the plant was duly sold to a South American consortium bidding $2.3 billion--more than 50% above the asking price. This was a disappointment for the man who makes no secret of his aim to build the world's largest and best-managed steel maker. But it is unlikely to hold him back for long. Having split his businesses from the family firm a few years ago, Mr Mittal has built Ispat into a company with a market capitalisation of roughly $3 billion and net sales of $2.7 billion in 1996. His LNM Group, which bundles publicly traded Ispat International with private operations in such places as Kazakhstan, has capacity of 15m tonnes and a geographical spread from Mexico to Germany and Indonesia that is unmatched in the industry.Mr Mittal's secret is a combination of technological vision and managerial good sense. He was among the first to spot two trends in steel-making technology. One was a shift from traditional blast furnaces to more efficient mini-mills, which were championed by America's Nucor. Except for the giant Kazakh blast-furnace, nearly all of LNM's plants are mini-mills. In the industry as a whole, mini-mills' share of world output has climbed from 14% in 1970 to 35% now, and analysts believe that it will grow further.Mr Mittal also realised that the price of the raw material for mini-mills--steel scrap--would rise as more mini-mills were constructed. He therefore invested in a substitute for scrap known as direct-reduced iron (DRI), and now produces more of it than any one else. DRI cost about $95 a tonne in 1996, compared with $155 a tonne for the high-quality scrap that mini-mills mostly use, and $125 a tonne for the pig-iron used to make steel in blast furnaces. DRI is not a proprietary technology, but it is complicated and hard to copy. Ispat has two decades of experience; Scott Morrison, an analyst with Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, an American investment bank, thinks that its lead in DRI technology is "virtually insurmountable for the foreseeable future".Managerially, Mr Mittal has been no less astute. Rather than build mills from scratch, he has added capacity by scouring the world for underperforming mills that process DRI. He bought state-owned mills in such places as Ireland and Trinidad, and divisions of distressed steel makers such as Germany's Thyssen. Although he has expanded rapidly (see chart), he has not been spendthrift. Jeremy Fletcher of CS First Boston reckons that, by buying poorly run plant, Ispat has invested less for each tonne of steel-making capacity than any other firm in the world--half of what has been spent by Nucor or Steel Dynamics, another American mini-mill firm that is reckoned to be the world's lowest-cost builder of new steel plants.Of course, simply buying dud firms is not enough. Ispat has had to rescue them too. The firm cuts purchasing costs and lays off workers. More interestingly, it is also prepared to invest when others are reluctant. Separate teams of American consultants and German managers had failed to turn around a steel works in Trinidad, which was losing $1m a day when Ispat took control in 1988. Ispat immediately spent $10m fitting the equipment needed to unblock bottlenecks. Three months later production had doubled and, within the year, the plant was profitable. Similarly, Ispat said on January 7th that it will spend $40m modernising the mills it bought from Thyssen in October last year.Other results have been just as dramatic. At its Mexican plant, for example, Ispat has lifted production from a quarter of its original capacity to well over 100%, and is now boosting it further. In Kazakhstan, a loss-making $450m venture that many judged risky even by Mr Mittal's own standards, productivity has improved by a quarter and output by more still. Mr Mittal estimates that the Kazakh works made a profit of $90m in 1997, double what it made the previous year--Mr Mittal's first as the works' owner.The question now is whether Ispat can continue to expand by following this approach. There are fewer cheap acquisitions around these days--as the Venezuelan privatisation suggests. Capacity that might yet be sold tends to be better run, and much of it is in mature, more competitive markets, such as Europe and America.Mr Mittal is characteristically unbowed. "Emerged, emerging or submerging markets: they all represent opportunity to me," he says. In the developed markets Mr Mittal points to his successes, such as Hamburger Stahlwerke, once a municipal works, which he turned around. He also thinks that the United States' steel industry is ripe for restructuring. He may be right: Bethlehem Steel announced a bid for Lukens in December and the pressure will intensify if Nucor and Canada's Ipsco proceed with plans to add capacity they announced on January 6th.But Mr Mittal is not alone in predicting a bright future for Ispat. Mr Morrison of Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette thinks that Ispat has a third strength to add to the quality of its technology and management. This is geographical spread. As soon as Mr Mittal acquires a firm, he redirects sales and purchasing internationally in order to fetch the best prices. In Kazakhstan, this meant shifting four-fifths of sales from barter to hard-currency exports. His Mexican operations shipped 62% of its output to Asia in 1992, but when prices there fell in 1994, it diverted that steel to the booming American market.With so much of the world to conquer, Mr Mittal has finally eased his grip on his company. Seeking better access to capital markets, he moved his headquarters to Rotterdam in 1995. Ispat's first IPO last August was eight times oversubscribed. Analysts lavish praise. "Arguably the best steel company on the planet," says one. "The most dynamic major steel company in the world," agrees another. Indeed, hubris threatens to become Mr Mittal's chief enemy. Which is why walking away from Venezuela empty-handed was probably not such a bad sign after all. 