Man of steelAPYou need my help tooTHE stakes are high--and President George Bush knows it. America's steel makers are counting down the hours to Wednesday, March 6th. On or before that date Mr Bush must decide how to respond to the demands from the steel industry for import tariffs of 40%. Without them, say the big steel makers, their industry, already in decline, is finished. America will cease to be a domestic producer of steel. But giving in to the industry's demands would undermine the president's commitment to free trade and would almost certainly open America up to retaliatory reaction from around the world. The steel-producing countries most affected by protectionist measures imposed by the Bush administration would fight back.The issues appear clear-cut, and that is one reason why they present Mr Bush with what looks like a "no-win" political dilemma. Imposing the tariffs would not only invite retaliatory measures from other countries, but damage, perhaps irreparably, the Bush administrations free-trade credentials and undermine the current Doha round of trade talks. On the other hand, not imposing them will infuriate not only steel companies, but their workers, who back demands for protection. Steel workers were important to the president's success in the 2000 election; and they could have an equally significant role in the mid-term congressional elections coming up in November. Many Democrats would jump at the chance to portray the president as destroying American jobs. At the heart of the problem lies the failure of the large American steel-producers--unionised and intensive users of capital and labour--to modernise. They are uncompetitive in what is now a fiercely competitive global market for steel. Sheltering behind trade barriers for so long, they have dismally failed to cut costs. Now they want still more protection from the much cheaper foreign imports which threaten their survival. Nothing less than import tariffs of 40% will do, they say.In the context of corporate America, the steel makers carry disproportionate clout, at least as far as Mr Bush is concerned. He unexpectedly won West Virginia, a Democratic stronghold, in the 2000 election, because steel workers were disillusioned by Bill Clinton's failure to give them special treatment. Several Republican seats in Congress--possibly enough to influence which party holds the majority in the House of Representatives--could be at risk if Mr Bush fails to please the steel industry. The Democrats are exploiting this for all it is worth. So is the steel making lobby, which has enlisted the military vote in its campaign, and argues that a domestic steel industry is important for American security. Carl Levin, the chairman of the Senate Armed Forces Committee, told a steel workers' rally that "we go to war with what you make".But giving in to the steel industry's demands also carries enormous risks for the president. It would make little economic sense, for a start. The steel industry might benefit, and some jobs might be saved there. But companies that use steel as part of the manufacturing process would face higher costs and so, as a consequence, would consumers. If the president were to impose 40% tariffs, steel prices would probably rise by about 10% on average. The effect on the economy would be similar to a tax increase. Already, manufacturers across America have requested around 1,000 exemptions from import tariffs for specific grades and types of steel which they argue can only be purchased abroad.Besides the large integrated and uncompetitive steel industry, there is another steel sector in America, comprising low-cost, non-unionised mini-mills: these have seen their share of the market grow five-fold in the past 25 years. Helping the big steel makers would, in any case, only postpone the day of reckoning for them and would, arguably, penalise the smaller, more efficient producers. It would also set an uncomfortable precedent for demands from other industries who also want protection from competition. Tom Daschle, the Senate majority leader, and a Democrat from South Dakota, a farm state, followed his support for the steel industry with a demand for protection for American farmers. Trent Lott, the Republican minority leader who is from Mississippi, wants similar help for the timber industry.Worst of all would be the international implications. Imposing large steel tariffs would damage bilateral relations with trading partners around the world, from Kazakhstan to South Korea. Relations with the European Union--already strained by America's foreign sales tax, which the World Trade Organisation has ruled illegal because of the unfair advantage it gives to American companies--would be badly damaged, only months after the launch of a new world trade round in Doha. With world growth sluggish at best, the last thing that the global economy needs is another acrimonious dispute between its two biggest trading blocs. In addition, retaliation from countries affected by American steel tariffs would be almost certain. Turning protectionist now would also damage Mr Bush's reputation as a believer in free trade and would further undermine his once-cherished hopes of an American free-trade area. The message to America's trading partners would, in essence, be that free trade is fine, so long as it does not harm America's interests.Mr Bush's advisers seem to be struggling to find a compromise formula that would minimise the international repercussions of making concessions to the steel lobby. The president may impose tariffs significantly lower than the steel industry would like; and he may do it selectively so that most poor countries as well as America's neighbours, Mexico and Canada, escape the worst effects. The risk with such a fine-tuning approach, of course, is that the president still alienates powerful international opinion while failing to satisfy the steel lobby.Ultimately, the steel question is a global one. Decades of protection, in America and Europe in particular, created global overcapacity in the steel industry. Throughout the 1980s and 1990s, Europe's steel industry experienced wrenching changes as companies, many of them state-owned, were gradually forced to face reality. America's steel producers claim they want time and breathing space to adjust. But in a global market, adjustment is a constant process. Saving jobs in the short term can often cost them in the long term. This week America's steel industry is loudly claiming that it is trying to save American jobs--at a time when Mr Bush says he is aiming to do the same thing--but any steel jobs saved by tariffs are almost certain to come at the cost of many more American jobs in other industries. Mr Bush should say this, and turn the steel producers down.