Mergers in the fertiliser industryA growth businessCorbisPotash makes the world grow roundFOR thousands of years farmers would try to ensure a decent harvest with exhortations to various deities. The weather may still be in the lap of the gods but the fecundity of the soil can now be improved by more down-to-earth means. The run-up in the price of fertiliser, which reached a peak along with most agricultural commodities in 2008, gave a taste of the money to be made by feeding the world. A recent flurry of takeovers suggests that fertiliser companies see the subsequent drop in prices as a buying opportunity before the next ascent begins.The biggest deal so far this year was unveiled on February 15th. Yara, a Norwegian fertiliser-maker, agreed to pay $4.1 billion for Terra, an American company. The deal will extend Yara's lead as the world's biggest maker of nitrogen-based fertiliser. Vale, a huge Brazilian mining company, has put up $4.8 billion for two recent purchases. These will boost its phosphate- and potash-based fertiliser businesses, which serve Brazil's vast and growing agricultural sector.BHP Billiton, the world's biggest mining company, has also added bulk to its potash operations. In January it paid $320m for Athabasca Potash, a Canadian business situated near a mine it owns in Saskatchewan. In a decade the combined sites could churn out 8m tonnes of potash annually, twice the output of the world's largest mine and equivalent to a just under a sixth of global consumption. Such is the allure of potash that rumours last year suggested that Vale or BHP might bid for a big global fertiliser company such as America's Mosaic or PCS of Canada.The explanation for all this is undoubtedly the open maw and changing dietary habits of the world's fast-expanding population. It is expected to grow by around a third by 2050 to over 9 billion people, who will all need to be fed. Moreover, as people grow more prosperous they eat more meat, which will require even more crops to provide feed for livestock.China's demand for fertiliser is expected to be particularly buoyant as a result of its huge population and the poor quality of its arable land. China is largely self-sufficient in nitrogen fertilisers. But the country is already a big importer of phosphates and especially potash. It consumes around a quarter of the 50m tonnes of potash produced in the world each year. By some estimates China alone might use 26m tonnes a year within a decade and a half.There are other factors at work besides the world's population pressures. The prices of fertilisers are recovering more slowly than those of other commodities, making fertiliser companies relatively cheap. That is especially true if the buyer is a mining firm, earning near-record prices once more for its ore. Big mining companies are also interested in phosphates and potash because they are generally extracted from the sort of huge mines that are their bread and butter.The Yara deal is partly a response to lower prices for natural gas in America. Energy accounts for about three-quarters of the cost of producing nitrogen fertilisers, so cheaper gas and proximity to America's many farmers make Terra an attractive buy. The gods, it seems, are smiling on the fertiliser-makers. 