Metals and miningThe thrill of the chase"HUNTER or hunted"--that is how analysts at Citigroup, among other banks, classify big metals and mining firms these days. It is easy to see why: so far this year, the predators of the mining world have snapped up two big gold miners and two firms that mainly mine nickel--the latter pair snatched from the jaws of other prowlers. Mittal has devoured Arcelor to become the world's biggest steelmaker; Rusal, a Russian aluminium firm, is said to be on the verge of creating a similar giant by swallowing Sual, a smaller Russian rival, and the aluminium businesses of Glencore, a Swiss company; and India's Tata says it is thinking about buying Corus, an Anglo-Dutch firm. The shared bloodlust, however, disguises two conflicting strategies, between firms that are trying to become the biggest producers of a particular metal and those that aim for diversity.In part, this dichotomy reflects the peculiarities of steel- and aluminium-making, in which firms tend to process raw materials bought from mining firms (bauxite or alumina for aluminium, and iron ore and coking coal for steel), rather than dig them up themselves. So one rationale behind steel and aluminium mergers is to gain more leverage over suppliers. This is particularly important for steelmakers, since just three firms control three-quarters of the world's supply of iron ore and set prices by negotiation with their customers. To escape this trap, firms such as Mittal are acquiring mines of their own. Similarly, Sual's bauxite reserves and Glencore's alumina refineries make a good match for Rusal's aluminium smelters.But in the long run, reports suggest, Rusal's bosses also want to expand into other metals. After all, the shares of big aluminium firms, such as Alcoa, have idled in recent years, even as those of mining conglomerates have raced ahead (see chart). Shares of the most diversified, such as Rio Tinto and BHP Billiton, trade at higher valuations than those of their less variegated rivals. The more commodities a mining firm churns out, the less its profits depend on the price of each one. Likewise, the more countries it operates in, and the more mines it runs, the less vulnerable it is to problems in any one of them.This hedging effect is all the more important for firms seeking to expand beyond their bases in stable places such as North America and Australia to dodgier jurisdictions in Africa and Latin America. As commodity prices have risen, governments in some poor countries have demanded higher royalties or threatened recalcitrant firms with expropriations. But these countries contain the most promising territory for exploration, so such political risks can only increase.No wonder that Companhia Vale do Rio Doce, a big Brazilian iron-ore producer, is buying Inco, one of the two Canadian nickel firms gobbled up in recent deals. The output of the other, Falconbridge, complements the coal, copper and zinc businesses of its purchaser, Xstrata.But not all diversification is popular with investors. Earlier this year, the shareholders of Inco and Falconbridge rejected a three-way tie-up with Phelps Dodge, an American copper miner. The resulting firm would have been a top producer of copper and nickel, two of the most lucrative metals of late, but also among the most volatile. Conversely, says Fraser Phillips of RBC Capital Markets, a Canadian bank, firms that sell commodities with more stable prices, such as iron ore and coking coal, trade at a premium.Lumping gold in with other metals is another no-no. Since their product is so prized, gold miners tend to trade at even higher valuations than diversified mining firms. So gold firms tend to sell off seams of any other metals they discover, and to merge only with one another. Meanwhile, the managers of Anglo-American, a mining conglomerate, have decided they will make their shareholders more money by selling their stake in AngloGold Ashanti, a big gold miner, than by keeping hold of it.Another worry is that predators will pay too much for their prey. The prices of most metals have risen dramatically over the past few years and many are still far above the cost of production, despite falling somewhat in recent months. Gloomy economists see that as a sign that supply will inevitably expand, pushing prices down further. But commodities firms of all stripes argue that rapid economic growth in the developing world will boost demand for their wares for years to come and so help them to escape from the industry's typical boom-and-bust cycles.Furthermore, since new mines can take as long as a decade to develop, mining executives say, and since firms made few investments during the lean years of the 1980s and 1990s, supply could take a long time to catch up with demand. Indeed, current efforts to expand output are being hampered by a shortage of all manner of inputs, from trucks to geologists.Given this promising outlook, mining bosses feel that their firms' share prices have not risen as high as they should, says Michael Gambardella of JPMorgan. That makes share buybacks and purchases of other seemingly undervalued firms look like good deals. Moreover, thanks to high commodity prices, mining firms are flush with cash. Analysts at Goldman Sachs calculate that the four biggest will have over $15 billion to spare next year, after dividends and capital expenditure. However, Heath Jansen of Citigroup points out that the best time for diversified firms to take over their more specialised rivals is when commodity prices fall. The conglomerates' revenues and share prices should hold up better than those of other mining firms, allowing them to buy struggling firms at a discount--provided, of course, that they can keep their hunger at bay until then. 