MiningSterling silverIN THE hills north-east of Mexico City it is not uncommon to find Cornish pasties for sale. At least the pastry shells originated in Cornwall, but the fillings--such as chocolate-flavoured chicken mole--are distinctly Mexican. This is fusion cuisine from 100 years ago, the legacy of an influx of silver miners from Cornwall to this part of Mexico at the beginning of the 20th century.This month Mexican mining moved in the opposite direction with the listing of Fresnillo, the world's largest producer of silver, on the London Stock Exchange (LSE). The company, the first Mexican one to be listed in London, raised some $2 billion, but its initial public offering had broader ramifications. You might have expected a Mexican company to head straight for Wall Street. That it did not both shows the success of the LSE's efforts in Latin America and also highlights the extent to which London now dominates mining finance.Fresnillo is in good company, says Graham Dallas of the LSE. Four of the five largest mining companies in the world are listed in London. A decade ago, Toronto might have been their favoured destination, if it was not New York. But compared with Toronto, London has more liquidity, as well as more analysts, bankers and lawyers specialising in natural resources. Fresnillo's boss, Jaime Lomelin, says London's appeal has grown over New York because of the way it treats taxes, and because he prefers the LSE's comply-or-explain "combined code" of corporate governance to the Sarbanes-Oxley legislation in America. Though half of its board is independent, Fresnillo's corporate governance is not pristine: it is still 75% owned by Penoles, a larger mining company, and will be chaired by Alberto Bailleres, Penoles's boss and Mexico's second-richest man, according to Forbes. Critics will argue that the voluntary regulation is one reason such companies are attracted to London over New York, and regulation is a tricky business--it always looks more failsafe than it actually is.Fresnillo is not the only Latin American firm to be seduced. Hochschild, a Peruvian mining company, went public in London in 2006. Until recently, such companies would have been considered part of New York's "backyard"--but the LSE is not respectful of boundaries. After all, mining is a global business, and you do not always need deep country-specific knowledge to understand it. That is why Cornish miners could work easily in Mexico. It is also why Mexican miners can find a home in London.