Mining in CanadaOut of a holeTHERE was a time when the annual convention of the Prospectors and Developers Association of Canada drew a crowd of rough characters from Canada's northern bush intent on whooping it up in the big city and telling tall tales to financiers about their mining claims. The event in Toronto this week was not a frontiersman's gathering, however, but the world's biggest mining gabfest. A few old-timers remain, but most of the 15,000 delegates at this year's event were more adept at wielding a BlackBerry than a pickaxe, and were more likely to have come from Mongolia, Peru or South Africa than Balmertown, northern Ontario. Yet the conversation was reassuringly familiar. Will today's seam of luck (good or bad) continue? And how can the industry cope with changing times?Canadian mining firms, like those elsewhere, have been riding high since metal prices began their stratospheric ascent in 2002. More than half of the world's mining and exploration firms, some 1,274 in total, are registered on Toronto's two exchanges, the TSX and TSX Venture. Collectively, they raised $11 billion in equity financing last year, largely on the strength of China's unabated appetite for raw materials. But recent jitters in stockmarkets and commodities markets have heightened concerns that some metal prices have peaked. Even so, the mood in Toronto was celebratory. Before the boom, the junior mining companies that include most of the Toronto listings had suffered a long dry spell. Low mineral prices were only partly to blame for the dearth of investment to finance exploration and development. Another reason was the scandal over Bre-X Minerals, a Canadian firm that falsely claimed to have discovered a huge gold deposit in Indonesia. Stockmarket investors lost some C$6 billion ($4.4 billion) when the fraud came to light. No one was ever convicted for the largest stock swindle in Canadian history, though Bre-X's vice-president, John Felderhof, has been charged with insider trading. A verdict is expected later this year.For a while the scandal overshadowed other Canadian firms, but the cloud has now lifted, says Jens Hansen, a prospector based in Ottawa who attended the convention. Its legacy is tighter regulation, including a requirement that the results from exploratory drilling are independently vouched for, to prevent core samples being "salted" with gold or other minerals, as happened with Bre-X.Mr Hansen is in the fortunate position of holding claims on properties showing potential for uranium, one of this year's sought-after minerals. As concern over climate change improves the prospects for nuclear power, uranium demand has outpaced supply and speculative buying has forced the price up to $85 per pound, from $10 in 2003. Canada's prospectors have fanned out to stake claims in northern areas that were previously overlooked.This has led to other shifts. Where once the talk was firmly on the mechanics and financing of mining claims, the convention's agenda now includes workshops on how to deal with aboriginal communities. In America such sessions have been an industry staple for at least a decade, says Hans Matthews, who advises aboriginal groups on how to treat mining firms. Much of the activity is on land that is either owned by aboriginal groups, or subject negotiations over title. All this is bringing out the miners' softer side. Corporate social responsibility was considered so esoteric two years ago that a planned session at the convention was cancelled due to lack of interest. This year's two-day session, by contrast, was sold out in advance. 