MiningStriking goldAFPFOR the first time in 18 years, South Africa's gold miners have laid down their tools. After wage negotiations failed, the National Union of Mineworkers began a strike on August 7th, joined a day later by Solidarity, a union representing skilled, mainly white, mine employees. Over 100,000 miners went on strike, halting the country's four main gold producers--AngloGold Ashanti, Harmony Gold, Gold Fields and South Deep--which together generate over 80% of the country's output. The strike costs 130m rand ($20m) a day in lost production. So far, this has not moved world gold prices, but, if it continues for long, it is likely to hit South Africa's already struggling gold industry quite hard. Wages rose by 10% in 2003 and 7% last year, above headline inflation. But the unions say that the cost of living for their workers has grown faster than average prices. They also argue that a pay rise of a few percent does not amount to much on a minimum wage of 2,200 rand a month. They initially demanded a 12% rise, against the employers' offer of 5%--a gap that negotiations narrowed but failed to close. This comes at a bad time for South Africa's gold mining industry--now less significant for the country's economy than platinum--which has seen its share of global output fall from 68% in 1970 to 14% today. Last year, South Africa produced less than 345 tonnes, the lowest since 1931. As deposits thin, mining is taking place at ever greater depths--sometimes 4km (2.5 miles) underground--which has pushed up production costs, and made production more reliant on labour, which plays a bigger role at such depths. Hence the employers' reluctance to settle too high. Other costs have been rising, too, including for water, steel and transport. Even worse, the rand has more than doubled against the dollar since 2001, melting away dollar increases in the world gold price (see chart). In short, margins have been squeezed, and over half of the country's gold is now produced at a loss or just above break even. Slashing costs has become vital. The industry has shed around 30,000 workers in the past two years.Worse news may be to come. The South African government has held discussions with the mining industry about aligning royalties and taxation with international practice. This would eventually mean higher charges. On the other hand, there appears to be less cost than had been feared from a new law that transferred mineral ownership to the state, and gave mining firms five years to satisfy several obligations--including a transfer of capital into black hands, intended to correct economic inequalities inherited from apartheid--to keep their right to mine. Harmony and AngloGold Ashanti have each recently secured new mining rights.Harmony, which has tiny margins and extracts 90% of its gold in South Africa, is expected to suffer most from the strike. Its operating profits have fallen by over half in the past year. It recently reported an overall annual net loss of 3.5 billion rand. AngloGold Ashanti, however, enjoys lower production costs and relies on South Africa for less than half of its output, and was the first to break ranks by offering workers an up to 6.5% salary increase. The other mining firms have now followed suit and improved their offer. As The Economist went to press, the miners were due to vote on the latest offer. As they are losing 60m rand in wages every day, there are powerful incentives for both sides to settle. 