MiningBigger diggerJUST two years ago, the mining firm known as "Big Australian" was bleeding red ink. It turned to a big American with big ideas for help. The burly new boss whipped it into shape, and within a year profits were soaring. Now, the motorcycle-riding executive plans to gobble up a biggish British rival. Having transformed BHP, can Paul Anderson secure it a place in the big league?His latest move is characteristically bold, but it may yet produce a few nasty surprises. On March 19th, Mr Anderson revealed plans to merge BHP with Billiton, a British mining firm formerly based in South Africa. If consummated, the deal would create a giant with a market capitalisation of almost $30 billion and annual sales of nearly $20 billion. BHP shareholders will control about 60% of the combined group; the offer implies a premium of around 20% for Billiton's shares. Mr Anderson will serve as chief executive until the end of 2002, when he is to hand over to Brian Gilbertson, Billiton's current boss.This putative deal is but the latest in a frenzy of consolidation that has gripped the global mining and metals industry in recent years. In 1999, North America saw a wave of mergers in copper and aluminium, including a hostile bid for Reynolds by Alcoa, the world's biggest metals firm. London-based firms led the charge last year, with forays by Billiton, and by Rio Tinto and Anglo American, its much-bigger compatriots. Earlier this year, Anglo launched a bid that would take the De Beers diamond cartel private. One reason why size matters is the mining industry's small size relative to other comparable industries, such as petroleum. This means that only the biggest firms catch the eye of big institutional investors. Another reason is that size and profitability are often linked. One reason, argues Ian Maxwell of Schroder Salomon Smith Barney, an investment bank, is that only the biggest firms can afford to get over the high barriers to entry in the high-return, low-risk niches of the mining business: iron ore, alumina, diamonds and industrial minerals. As it happens, BHP is strong in two of these areas, and Billiton in the other two. Still, snags may yet emerge. The deal might attract scrutiny from antitrust authorities. Competition concerns have already scuppered one big deal in the industry: the three-way aluminium merger proposed by Alcan, Pechiney and Algroup in 1999. But analysts say this is less likely to be a problem for BHP and Billiton since there is little overlap: Billiton brings exposure to southern Africa and strength in aluminium and copper, while BHP adds Australian assets and strength in coal, oil and other minerals. A likelier problem may be a hostile bid for Billiton, which could be a good fit for either Anglo American or Rio Tinto. Anglo already owns 7% of Billiton, but it has its hands full with its ongoing De Beers deal. Tilting at Billiton now would also be financially risky for Anglo, especially given the promises by its boss, Tony Trahar, to show financial discipline and to diversify the firm away from its South African roots. Another bidder could be Alcan, which is rumoured to have been in merger talks with Billiton before BHP clinched the deal. However, any new suitor must be ready to top the hefty premium offered by BHP. Even if a rival bid does not snatch Billiton from BHP's clasp, Mr Anderson is not guaranteed success. After all, most mergers in most industries fail to live up to their promise. In this case, however, cost reductions through layoffs or asset disposals are not the main justification; the firms promise to squeeze out less than $300m in costs by 2003. This may not be as bad as it seems. The synergies on offer are so meagre only because the two firms are unusually complementary. Mr Anderson says that the deal is not about cost savings, but rather about "creating opportunities" (what deal isn't?). The merged firm's bosses have already declared that it will pursue yet more deals.Jack Jones of CIBC, an investment bank, argues that the mining business is now divided between vultures and victims--and that this merger will move both companies firmly into the former camp. The deal, he says, should revive the finances of Billiton (whose large debt overhang made it the worst-performing British mining share last year) while leaving an enlarged BHP's balance sheet healthy.Even so, sceptics still worry that the firm may not be able to establish a new corporate culture quickly. Some point to the dual-listing structure of the deal (akin to that of the Anglo-Dutch Unilever) and the "heir apparent" arrangement, with Mr Gilbertson hanging about for the boss to retire.Mr Anderson dismisses such suggestions. He insists that he is fully aware of the need for speedy integration, and points out that he is a veteran of two other successful mergers, one of which produced Duke Energy, one of America's biggest electricity firms. Still, he will need to move quickly if he wants to leave with his reputation intact. As he himself points out: "I've learnt with mergers that no matter how fast you move, you didn't move fast enough." Those words may yet come back to haunt him.