MiningThe shedding giantTHE slimming regimen announced last October has now started in earnest for Anglo American. Last month the mining giant announced that it would reduce its shareholding in AngloGold Ashanti--the third-largest gold producer in the world--from 51% to somewhere between 41% and 42.6%, depending on demand. Other subsidiaries, from paper and packaging to steel, are expected to disappear soon from Anglo American's books. This is the latest instalment of the group's protracted plan to transform itself from a diversified South African behemoth into a global company focused on mining. In the early 1990s Anglo American was involved in everything from mining to finance, media and beer. The end of apartheid created new opportunities for Anglo as the world suddenly opened up to South African companies; but it also brought global competition and pressure to support the emergence of black business. Anglo American started selling assets, cleaned up its complicated holding structure, and expanded abroad. In the late 1990s it moved its headquarters and primary listing to London to draw on a bigger pool of capital. Today, more than 55% of the group's operating profit is generated outside South Africa.However, Anglo American still has interests in a range of industries that have little in common. So in October the group announced that it would further focus on mining. It would spin off Mondi, the paper company that generated 8% of the group's headline earnings last year, and sell Highveld Steel. Its interests in sugar and aluminium are likely to share the same fate. But why is a company keen on mining getting out of gold? The answer is that at the moment, the market places a big premium on the shares of companies such as AngloGold Ashanti, which are pure "gold plays". Since AngloGold Ashanti's "gold premium" is not fully reflected when it is folded into Anglo American, it makes financial sense for Anglo American to sell some of its shares to unlock that premium. Accounting rules mean that once its share of AngloGold Ashanti falls below 50%, the value of that holding can be reflected in its books at market price, as an investment.Furthermore, AngloGold Ashanti has embarked on its own cash-raising exercise and it intends to issue $500m of new shares. It would have cost Anglo American hard cash to retain its controlling stake. In any case, Anglo American and its subsidiary have different appetites for risk these days. AngloGold Ashanti is venturing into difficult places such as the Democratic Republic of Congo. For all that, Anglo American is adamant that it wants to remain a substantial minority shareholder in AngloGold Ashanti, which generated 3% of the group's headline earnings last year. With the majority now up for grabs, however, it could change its mind if potential suitors materialise with attractive offers. For the moment, the 10% slice for sale is expected to bring in between $850m and $1 billion. There have been rumours that Mondi, the $8 billion subsidiary supposed to be listed this year or next, may actually be bought before it reaches the stock exchange. The sale of Highveld Steel--thought to be worth about $1.1 billion--is well under way. Anglo American's sugar interests could yield an extra $900m. This is no small shedding exercise, even for a PS36.2 billion ($63.3 billion) company.How is Anglo American going to spend this bounty? It says the money will be used to reduce debt, finance investments, and buy back shares. But the bulk is likely to be spent on investments. So far, $6.7 billion worth of projects, mainly in mining, have been approved for the next four years, with another $10 billion-15 billion being considered for the more distant future. The group, which over the past decade has acquired even more than it has sold, may also be thinking of buying new businesses that fit its mining profile. If the company keeps too much cash on its books, it could itself become a mouth-watering acquisition target. 