MiningUpping the anteTHE world's two biggest gold producers got hot under the collar this week, trying to woo an antipodean sweetheart. AngloGold bid A$3.2 billion ($1.7 billion) for Australia's largest gold producer, Normandy, in September, as part of its efforts to move production away from South Africa's costly deep mines to cheaper open-cast ones. But it was outshone by a bid, now worth A$3.4 billion, from Newmont, an American rival. So this week Bobby Godsell, AngloGold's boss, plunged into the courts, branding the Newmont bid "misleading", and then upped his own bid. Why all the excitement?One reason why Newmont and AngloGold are at each other's throats is that they know the gold industry needs to consolidate. It is too fragmented to organise supply in a way that keeps prices stable. Gold producers are therefore under pressure to save costs by joining together to the same extent as their peers in the nickel, iron-ore and copper mining industries, where the ten largest companies account for well over half of all metal mined. Likewise, a few big groups produce all of the world's platinum. Even aluminium producers are trying to restructure: one of them, Alcoa, has been courting another Australian mining company, WMC.Who will win Normandy's hand? AngloGold's new bid--a mix of its own shares and cash--is worth A$3.7 billion, and it now has the edge. Mr Godsell argues that AngloGold's proposal makes better business sense because of its existing joint ventures with Normandy and its production and environmental record. He wants Normandy's fate decided one way or another by the end of the year. But Newmont has asked shareholders in the Australian company not to be hasty, suggesting that it might raise its own bid.This makes the foray into the courts something of a side-show. When Newmont first approached Normandy, it also made a separate $2.6 billion bid for a Canadian mining company, Franco-Nevada, which in turn owns a 20% stake in Normandy. Mr Godsell claims that Newmont's double bid favours some shareholders over others, and thus breaks Australia's stockmarket rules. AngloAmerican, the South African giant which owns more than half of AngloGold, may be reluctant to enter a protracted bidding contest. But it also knows that, if AngloGold misses out on Normandy, Newmont will become the undisputed industry leader. And there are few dishes as good ready to be eaten, even though Mr Godsell talks airily of "five or six" alternatives. Indeed, speculation has grown recently that Barrick, another Canadian mining company, is eyeing AngloGold itself. Mr Godsell is quick to dismiss this as "rumour", but he concedes that "consolidation will continue if it produces value". Expect plenty more deal-making among the big diggers.