MiningKloppers clipped"A DEAL for all seasons" was how Marius Kloppers, the boss of BHP Billiton, described his company's bid for Rio Tinto, a rival Anglo-Australian mining giant. That was in August, before the chill of the credit crisis turned icy and the dark clouds of a global recession had begun to gather. On November 25th, after a year of reiterating the merits of the deal and several months into painstaking antitrust investigations by the European Union, BHP surprisingly decided to pull out.This is a huge blow for the ambitious Mr Kloppers, who cuts an unusual figure in the mining industry: rather than being a rugged industry veteran with dirt under his fingernails, he is a sharp-witted former management consultant. He instigated the hostile advance on Rio in November 2007, barely a month after becoming BHP's chief executive. Rio said his bid undervalued the company and maintained this position even when BHP raised its offer. At one point the all-share bid valued Rio at over $190 billion, which would have made the deal one of the biggest mergers in history. But it is a measure of the mining industry's rapid reversal of fortunes that by the time BHP decided to abandon its pursuit of Rio this week, the value of its bid had shrunk to $66 billion. The decision to quit may pain Mr Kloppers, but the reasons for doing so have mounted steadily.A year ago commodities were bubbling. But in the past few months prices have plummeted from record highs: The Economist's index of metals prices has fallen by 55% since March. Mining firms' share prices have tumbled too. Mining bosses were rightly wary of talk of a "supercycle" in an industry with a history of booms and busts, yet none would concede that China, its economy booming, was in any danger of losing its appetite for their products. In the event, a modest slowdown in China's growth, coupled with a looming recession in the developed world, caused metals prices to collapse.The fall in prices, and the corresponding impact on cashflow, meant that "it was just not the right time to be taking on the level of debt that exists on the Rio Tinto balance sheet," Mr Kloppers said this week. Rio has around $40 billion in debt after its acquisition in 2007 of Alcan, a Canadian aluminium company. BHP's debts are a more modest $6 billion. Although BHP had arranged a loan facility with its banks to cover the additional debt, it was evidently concerned about its ability to refinance the debt in future.Mr Kloppers may also have underestimated the opposition of regulators. Had the deal gone ahead, around 75% of the market for seaborne iron-ore would have ended up in the hands of two firms, BHP-Rio and Vale of Brazil. Customers were worried that this concentration would give the mining firms even greater leverage when setting prices. The share prices of Chinese steelmakers jumped on the news that the deal had collapsed.American and Australian regulators had given the deal their approval, but the EU's competition authorities objected, and would probably have allowed it through only on the condition that BHP made significant divestments, in order to maintain competition in iron ore. But as Rio's difficulties in unloading some of Alcan's subsidiaries illustrate, getting decent prices for divested assets would been almost impossible in an industry paralysed by a dearth of financing. According to BHP, this difficulty was the second reason for giving up on Rio.The EU was also thought to favour benchmark pricing as the fairest way to set iron-ore prices for steelmakers. The system allows them to sign contracts fixing the cost of their most important input for 12 months. But Mr Kloppers derides this system as "awful" and has been intent on dismantling the annual benchmark-price negotiations in favour of an index linked to the spot price, which had, until recently, outstripped benchmark prices for several years. Such is his commitment to breaking the old system that BHP has recently been testing indexed prices by selling iron ore on spot markets at well below contract prices. But this practice is unlikely to endure now that BHP has abandoned the deal.BHP says it will write off costs of around $450m relating to its pursuit of Rio since mid-2007. Having abandoned the mega-deal that has dominated his tenure so far, Mr Kloppers must now get back to the business of running his company. 