Mining mergersLet's dig togetherAnglo AmericanMINING is a cyclical business. And not only do commodity prices peak and trough but the enthusiasm of the world's big diversified miners for mega-deals waxes and wanes too. The dealmaking cycle is now clearly on an upswing. On Sunday June 21st Xstrata, an Anglo-Swiss mining giant, proposed a "merger of equals" with Anglo American, a big London-based miner. The combined firm, worth some $70 billion, would become the world's third-largest mining company. This comes after an announcement a couple of weeks ago that Rio Tinto and BHP Billiton, both Anglo-Australian firms, would combine their vast iron-ore operations in Western Australia.The latest round of dealmaking comes as commodity prices are recovering after a steep fall and the prospects for China's economy, the driver of the last boom in commodity prices, appear rosier than previously supposed, according to recent World Bank estimates. Moreover, in the longer term, the urbanisation in China and India that drives demand for metals is bound to continue. The future for miners looks reasonably bright. So there are sound reasons why the big miners might choose to revive some of the mergers that were attempted or speculated upon in the recent commodity boom. The biggest deal of all, a bid by BHP for Rio, collapsed in November 2008 as the credit crunch hit and the world economy foundered. But the recently concluded deal between the pair is based on the same logic that underpinned BHP's bid. The joint-venture could save the pair over $10 billion a year. A deal between Xstrata and Anglo is also likely to provide cost-cutting opportunities: estimates range between $750m and $1.7 billion annually. And Xstrata is well known for keeping a tight rein on costs, a skill its management team could bring to Anglo.The tie-up would create the second-largest supplier of coal for steelmakers. Along with the Rio-BHP iron-ore partnership, this will worry steelmakers fearful over overmighty suppliers attempting to push up prices. Together the two firms would also become the world's leading producer of diamonds, platinum, chrome and zinc, as well as taking second place in copper even as both firms, along with most others in the industry, are slashing capital spending. Mining companies were quick to raise production while commodity prices were hitting new peaks. But rapidly rising profits disguised huge cost increases that must now be tamed. When the fall in commodity prices hit earnings, mining firms responded with swift and deep cuts, closing mines and deferring new projects. Cutting capital expenditure means big miners are less likely to discover the long-lived and low-cost deposits that are nearly certain to remain profitable no matter what happens in fickle commodity markets in the seven to ten years it takes to bring them into full production. Finding and exploiting new assets is harder too. Mining giants were enraged by forced renegotiations of existing deals last year by governments in such places as Congo, Guinea and Mongolia and are now warier of making big investments in risky parts of the world. "Junior" miners, exploration companies that provide another source of future assets by taking on the risky discovery and early development of new mines, have been brought to a standstill by the dearth of debt to finance their activities. Faced with a drying up of the supply of untapped new assets, mining companies are looking at each other. By putting together their prime assets and stripping out costs Xstrata and Anglo would be well placed for the next commodities boom. But several obstacles to the deal remain. Anglo's management do not seem well-disposed towards Xstrata advances and have said sniffily that the deal is at a "very preliminary" stage. This may serve to confirm rumours that Mick Davis, Xstrata's boss, wants his people to take control of the new firm. Anglo's shareholders are distraught that the company's underperformance has dragged down its market value as Xstrata's has risen with the commodity-price revival. The two firms are now worth roughly the same. But Xstrata's merger terms would offer no premium to Anglo's investors, who may decide that Anglo could do better alone. And if the last peak in the cycle of proposed mining mega-mergers showed anything it is that these sorts of big deals are particularly tough to pull off.