MiningDirty diggersThe ego has departedAUSTRALIANS and South Africans love to scrap. South Africa's cricket team was officially named the world's best this week, to great fury in Australia whose team had just suffered an embarrassing loss to England. Rugby matches, surfing competitions and the world barbecue (or braai) championships are always hot-headed affairs. South African newspapers keenly plot the Ozzie dollar against the rand. Each January statisticians grimly compare Christmas road-death rates in the two countries. But nothing gets southern-hemisphere blood boiling more than gold, diamonds and other minerals. A year ago, South Africa's AngloGold fought and lost a long battle to control Normandy, an Australian gold-mining company. In July, Brian Gilbertson, a cocky former rocket scientist, and a South African, took the helm at BHP Billiton, a multinational mining firm based in Australia. On January 6th, after six uncomfortable months and to the delight of many Australians, Mr Gilbertson abruptly quit--reportedly with a multi-million-dollar pay-off. He promptly escaped the media pack by heading off for a relaxing trek in the jungle.The brash self-promoter may well have been pushed from his post. In the staid world of Australian business, the upstart who once reputedly demanded that his company's jet be emblazoned with his initials, BPG, ruffled feathers. Legend has it that when he was at Gencor, a Johannesburg-based mining company, browbeaten staff would greet his arrival by helicopter by declaring that "the ego has landed". At Billiton, a firm created by Gencor as a vehicle for international expansion which he ran from 1997, he first oversaw what was viewed as a daring expansion into aluminium smelting. He blazed a trail for other South African companies by listing on the London Stock Exchange, also in 1997. He then helped to engineer the merger, worth nearly $40 billion, with Australia's BHP in May 2001, creating the world's largest mining company. But his goal still remained further dramatic expansion and, of late, he had been casting a keen eye over various Australian oil firms.The more timid and Australian-dominated board of BHP Billiton wanted none of that, calling instead for management time to be spent bedding down the merger and cost-cutting. According to the company, Mr Gilbertson left because of "irreconcilable differences" with the board. The first task of the conservative new boss, Chip Goodyear, who is an American, is to make savings of $500m.Might BHP Billiton rue the departure of the swashbuckling Mr Gilbertson? The firm's share-price fell by 4% when the news of his departure broke this week. Mr Goodyear's safety-first approach will probably reassure investors before too long--but what of his vision? Mergers and consolidation have resulted in a few big global companies, including BHP Billiton and Anglo-American, dominating the worldwide digging business. Prices for commodities such as platinum and gold are rising, which might be expected to encourage bold strategies, such as expanding into oil. But BHP grew fast in the early 1990s, piling up a heap of expensive debt and bad memories. As for Mr Gilbertson, speculation is rife that the returning hero will soon find a job from which to pursue his expansionist aims--back in South Africa.