Monthly Aluminum MMI® Falls, Alcoa Stock Price SinksWeak demand, a flood of Chinese exports and robust Western supply, in spite of earlier smelter closures, have created a perfect storm of surplus in the aluminum market.Shares of Alcoa Inc. stock have been collapsing over the past few months, falling more than 20% in only 8 weeks.The aluminum giant, with earnings ahead on Wednesday, has experienced powerful earnings growth over the past four quarters; however, lower aluminum prices are weighing on its stock price.Alcoa, Inc. (AA) Stock Price 2 years out. Chart: MetalMiner.It should come as no surprise that the monthly Aluminum MMI(r) registered a value of 83 in July, a decrease of 3.5% from 86 in June.Download MetalMiner's July Metal Price ForecastWorld aluminum production in May is up almost 12% year-on-year. That is the fastest growth rate since 2011.Aluminum on the London Metal Exchange is back again below $1,700 per metric ton. This level acted as a floor in March 2014 and Alcoa investors are wondering if aluminum prices will rebound again this time, which would give a boost to Alcoa's shares.Unfortunately aluminum prices might need to fall further in order to cause further non-Chinese closures to balance the market. Furthermore, the Chinese stock market is having a rough go of it. The Shanghai index is off over 30% from highs reached in June. Finally, the fact that commodity prices keep falling across the board makes a rebound in aluminum prices more unlikely. Aluminum buyers and Alcoa investors might want to think twice before betting on a rebound in prices...The Aluminum MMI(r) collects and weights 12 global aluminum price points to provide a unique view into aluminum price trends over a 30-day period. For more information on the Aluminum MMI(r), how it's calculated or how your company can use the index, please drop us a note at: info (at) agmetalminer (dot) com.Free Download: Compare With the June MMI ReportOur Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service