Nuclear power and the mountain WestThe uranium rush"HELL, I'm 80," says Bob O'Dell. "They dug me up and put me to work." Mr O'Dell is a geologist, based in Casper, Wyoming and employed by Energy Metals, a Canadian uranium company. He should indeed be snoozing on a porch in well-earned retirement. But the uranium market is so hot just now that he--along with many other geologists and metallurgists--has been lured back to work.  The price of uranium oxide, the raw feedstock required for nuclear reactors, was in the doldrums for nearly a generation. Most American uranium mines closed, battered by low demand, a glut of imports from Russia's decommissioned atomic weapons and the discovery of higher-grade ores elsewhere. America fell from being the world's leading uranium producer to eighth, behind Namibia, Niger and Uzbekistan. Experts retired or left for better prospects, mostly in northern Saskatchewan or Australia. As recently as 2001, uranium oxide traded at $7.10 a pound, or $3.22 a kilogram. No more. Thanks to the spiralling global demand for power, the price or uranium has been climbing steadily ever since 2001: it was trading at $62 this week. Uranium companies are scrambling to find qualified workers and few places match the Rockies. For some years, in fact, Rocky Mountain producers have been rebuilding their industry. They now mostly extract uranium by in-situ leaching (ISL), which pumps alkali or a weak sulphuric acid solution into an isolated, ore-bearing stratum and recovers the mineral in suspension. The process is not completely free of contamination hazards, but it avoids the problems that have plagued open-pit or underground mines for decades, especially that posed by radioactive tailings.  Yet high demand has also re-kindled enthusiasm for the old ways. In July, a South African/Canadian firm called SRX Uranium One swooped into Wyoming and Utah and bought two of the four remaining uranium-processing mills left in the country, both currently mothballed. They also acquired mining rights and plan to extract ore by digging it out.  The boss of SRX, Neil Froneman, seems undeterred by the costs and obstacles of conventional mining. Because ISL can operate only under certain geological conditions involving isolated aquifers, he says, underground mining is bound to make a comeback.  Locals feel cautious. Uranium's influence has been spotty but powerful in the rural West. One of the last American boomtowns was Jeffery City, 100 miles (160 km) from Casper and close to one of SRX's new acquisitions. It ran on uranium. During the last jag of high prices in the mid-1970s it supported nearly 5,000 people. Now it has 50, the school is shut and locals doubt the town will ever pull itself up again. Moab, Utah, also seems suspicious of a new boom. Once known as "The Uranium Capital of the World," it is still dealing with radioactive mill-tailings from the last boom: that has cost the government some $500m. Still, though SRX's new property, Shootaring, is 160 miles (260 km) from Moab, such distances mean little in the West. Sooner or later Grand County will feel the development. The Utah Geological Survey says that more than 5,000 uranium claims were filed in 2005. More octogenarians could soon join Mr O'Dell. 