Ore processingRumpelstiltskiniaSO YOU have thousands of tonnes of stuff, all dug from the earth's bowels. What do you do with it? Rather like Rumpelstiltskin spinning gold from straw in the Grimm fairytale, mining companies want to turn their muck into money. But there is an intermediate step--the ore must first be made into something they can sell.This is a nuisance. The 13.5m tonnes of copper mined across the world every year has to be separated from more than 600m tonnes of waste. For the fifth of this copper that is bonded to oxygen, that is relatively simple. You pile oxide ores into a big heap, spray some acid on top and, abracadabra, the copper flows out, having dissolved in the acid. It is then straightforward to extract the copper from the solution by electrolysis.Unfortunately, the other 80% of the world's copper, as well as almost all of the nickel mined each year, is bonded to sulphur. Sulphide ores require more subtle preparation. First, they must be ground up, mixed with water and stirred vigorously while some chemical seasoning is added. Then the mixture must be dried and smelted at 1,200degC. The sulphur vaporises (often returning to earth as acid rain), and the metal is left behind.Conservative estimates suggest that, even with modern, clean smelters, copper production releases at least 400,000 tonnes of sulphur into the atmosphere each year. (Nickel smelters release as much again.) And copper produced this way costs around $1,400 a tonne. So if copper could be produced from sulphide ores at a mere $880 a tonne without smelting, and nickel at a similarly competitive price, that would be a useful breakthrough. If it could all be done without releasing sulphur into the atmosphere, it would be even better.Titan Resources, a firm based in Perth, Australia, believes it can manage to do both, without using any of the physical and chemical processes traditionally involved in purifying ores. Instead, it has turned to biology. BioHeap, as Titan dubs its process, uses bacteria that the company has developed by selective breeding over the past five years. The bacteria are sprayed on to heaps of sulphide ore, along with some acid. The bacteria convert the sulphides to oxides, and the metal flows out with the acid, leaving only the sulphur behind. Titan has tested BioHeap successfully on a 5,000 tonne nickel heap. And it recently signed a contract with China's biggest nickel producer, Jinchuan Nonferrous Metals. Jinchuan plans to start using BioHeap in both copper and nickel mines in the next few months. So what is Titan's wonderful bacterium called? Like the miller's daughter in the fairytale, you'll have to guess--it's a secret.