PlatinumAll that glistersSOUTH AFRICA has long been synonymous with gold. In 1980, the yellow metal accounted for half the country's exports. At the height of apartheid, a British comedian even lampooned American rap singers for wearing so much gold--while their lyrics shouted black pride, their choice of accessories supported white racism.These days, gold is looking a little tarnished. Among South Africa's exports, it has been pushed into the silver position by platinum. With the gold price depressed and platinum soaring to a 13-year high this week (see chart below), South Africa's mining-industry association expects the country to earn 29.9 billion rand ($3.9 billion) from the main platinum-group metals (platinum, palladium and rhodium) this year, compared with 26.8 billion rand for gold.South Africa has over half the world's known platinum reserves--about 270 years' worth at current levels of production. Its platinum miners are scrabbling to dig more of the stuff. Anglo Platinum, the world's largest platinum miner, plans to expand annual production from 2m ounces this year to 3.5m ounces by 2006. Impala Platinum, Anglo's nearest rival, plans to re-open a mothballed mine and to sink a new one as fast as possible. Stockbrokers in Johannesburg are urging clients to dump technology shares and buy platinum ones instead.Why is platinum suddenly so popular? A fashion for understated jewellery helps. Platinum is harder than gold, and therefore more difficult to turn into rings or necklaces. But being less gaudy, white metal fits better with minimalist chic. In China, the fastest-growing market, youngsters sneer at gold as the kind of thing worn by fat middle-aged mah-jong players. A further rise in the price ought, in logic, to depress jewellery sales, but for rich buyers, the more expensive platinum becomes, the more they want it.Unlike gold, platinum has important industrial uses, too: in catalytic converters for cars, for example, and to increase the data-storage capacity of computer hard disks. Future demand could be even brisker if the fuel cell, a clean alternative to the internal-combustion engine, catches on. Most big car companies are working on ways of making fuel cell-powered vehicles commercially viable; almost all their plans involve platinum or its relatives. Rene Hochreiter, an analyst at Barnard Jacobs Mellet, a South African investment bank, predicts that fuel cells will require up to 1m ounces of platinum a year by 2010--about a fifth of present annual mine output.Will the platinum boom last? Producers of any commodity are at the mercy of sharp price swings. When prices are high, producers invest in extra capacity, which can lead to over-supply and a drop in the price. High prices are especially hard to sustain when the commodity in question is never consumed, as with gold and platinum. All the gold ever mined is still there, much of it sitting in the vaults of central banks. When the price rises, central bankers are tempted to sell their stocks, which depresses the price.Platinum, like gold, never rusts. But it was never used to underpin currencies either, so there are no huge supplies of idle platinum waiting to be dumped on the market. Sales from the largest stockpile, in Russia, have cooled prices a little over the past few years. The Russians have not disclosed exactly how much platinum is left in their pile, but South African producers expect it to run out quite soon. Barry Davison, chairman of Anglo Platinum, insists that his company will trim costs even as the high price of platinum reduces pressure to do so. This is not easy: unionised miners demand higher wages when times are good, and resist cuts when times are bad. Anglo Platinum suffered a month-long strike in September. And costs are actually rising this year at several South African platinum mines, although this is largely because of freak floods, which are unlikely to recur any time soon.All things considered, the outlook for platinum seems bright. All that remains is for the industry's marketing folk to persuade a few pop stars to wear chunky platinum chains, instead of gold, in support of the new, black-ruled South Africa.