Port Talbot steelworksEither oreTHE two giant blast furnaces at Port Talbot were still pouring out large volumes of molten iron this week. Every few minutes large "torpedoes" full of the stuff, the size of large lorries, emerged from the two plants to be moved by rail to where it will be processed into steel sheets. But it wasn't quite business as usual, for May 3rd was the deadline for prospective buyers to register an intention to buy the plant.Tata Steel, the current owner, has been losing more than PS1m ($1.45m) a day on Port Talbot, and is therefore selling it, together with the rest of its British operations. Two groups have emerged as possible buyers, but whether either of them can produce a sustainable future for Port Talbot is questionable. At stake are about 4,300 jobs and the future of steelmaking in Britain.One contender is a management buy-out, led by Stuart Wilkie, a senior manager at Tata Steel, and Roger Maggs, the chair of Port Talbot's Waterfront Enterprise Zone. Their newly-formed Excalibur Steel wants to revive the "turnaround plan" presented and rejected by Tata Steel's board in Mumbai in March. This would include various efficiency measures intended to make producing new steel at the two blast furnaces profitable by the end of 2017, continuing the work of the present owners. They hope to fund the PS200m-400m they may need to complete the buy-out with a combination of government funding, bank loans and by asking present and past employees to invest up to PS10,000 each in the project.Lined up against them is Liberty House, a steel firm led by Sanjeev Gupta, from a family of Indian billionaires. His plan involves increasing the amount of steel that the plant produces out of scrap metal from the current level of around 20% of its output, and away from producing steel from raw coke and iron ore. This would eventually involve installing energy-efficient electric arc furnaces of the sort seen in "mini-mills" in America. These have lower labour costs and can easily be switched on and off to cope with changing demand.Mr Gupta argues they could be viable at Port Talbot; such equipment is already in operation in nearby Cardiff. While the profitability of new steelmaking is highly vulnerable to coal, iron-ore and steel prices on global commodity markets, margins on melting down scrap are much more stable. And there is plenty of this available: Britain produces 9m tonnes of scrap a year, of which two-thirds is smelted abroad due to Britain's high energy prices.Recycling this scrap at home would be much greener than exporting it abroad to places such as Turkey where less environmentally-friendly forms of energy are used. And not only does this save on green miles transporting the stuff in and out of Britain, but also means that Britain would need to make less steel from iron ore, a carbon-intensive process; Port Talbot is one of the most polluted places in the country.As the bids presently stand, the management buy-out's is the least convincing. If Tata Steel, a well-capitalised multinational with global expertise in technology and marketing cannot turn Port Talbot round, a poorly-funded management buy-out with little expertise in global marketing or supply chains will hardly do better.Mr Gupta's plan appears more viable, because it attempts to find a sustainable model for the industry in the long term. But even so, Liberty House would still need some help from the government to reduce the labour, energy and environmental costs of the plant, in particular by removing the carbon taxes from the electricity his arc furnaces would use.But here the government is bound to be helpful. David Cameron, the prime minister, paid a surprise visit to Port Talbot on April 26th and reiterated his government's pledge to do "all it can to support the sustainable future of steelmaking" at the plant. Mr Cameron is mindful of the impact of job losses if Port Talbot were to close. Mr Gupta must therefore be hopeful that he can strike a good deal with ministers to sweeten his takeover.Most workers at the plant probably favour the Excalibur plan, as it preserves the status quo, and with it most of the jobs. However, they want to examine carefully the terms on which they might be asked to invest in the new project. Under the management buy-out's plan, if steel prices drop, the workers could find themselves without their jobs or their savings. And any dowry given to the firm that could have been spent retraining workers would be wasted in a repeat of the collapse of Rover, a Midlands carmaker that went bust five years after a similar buy-out in 2000.While Mr Gupta's plan may involve some job losses much sooner, it will give time for workers to retrain and other firms in the area to grow. Although some steelworkers may move away to projects such as HS2, a high-speed railway, there are plenty of opportunities in Swansea and in Cardiff, which is the top city in Wales for job creation. Steel has traditionally dominated the local economy. Now other industries must take the lead.