Pressure in ZimbabweIt is not just the government that is in an increasingly difficult position--firms with operations in Zimbabwe are coming under increasing pressure to withdraw.Talks about talks between the Zimbabwean government and the two wings of the opposition Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) are unlikely to progress speedily. The MDC leader, Morgan Tsvangirai, is refusing to sign a framework for negotiations, apparently pending a meeting between the South African president and head of the African Union to discuss ways of brokering a power-sharing agreement.Zimbabwe's painful interregnum therefore seems destined to drag on for months, unless economic pressures--as opposed to personalised, targeted sanctions--force Robert Mugabe to step down as president. Economic pressures are mounting, but it is not just the government that is in an increasingly difficult position: so too is business, and especially British multinationals, which are caught between two implacable foes--the Brown and Mugabe governments.High-profile mining companies such as Rio Tinto and Anglo American and banks like Barclays, Old Mutual and Standard Chartered are taking most of the flak. The British prime minister says that mining companies like Anglo American--which is investing US$400m in developing its Unki platinum property--should think again about "supporting" the Mugabe regime in this way. Anglo's chairman, Sir Mark Moody-Stuart, sees it rather differently: "We face a very difficult choice...Do we progress slowly, with the project coming on stream in a few years' time, when hopefully the situation would be different? Or do we let it go to the Zimbabwean government, who will probably flip it to someone else for cash, which they are not getting at the moment?" Because Chinese investors, in particular, are only too keen to step into the breach, Anglo believes its withdrawal would not damage Robert Mugabe's position in any way--a view shared by the Zimbabwean president himself, who commented: "Mr Brown please withdraw your companies. We do not want them here."Defending the industry in the face of the Mugabe government's threats, David Murangari, the president of the Zimbabwe Chamber of Mines, says that many mining companies are already locally owned. Of 22 large mining firms operating in the country three are government-owned, while another three are indigenously owned. Four are listed on the Zimbabwe Stock Exchange, meaning that they have substantial black Zimbabwean ownership either directly or indirectly through pension funds and unit trusts. Two mines are locally owned but by white (non-indigenous) Zimbabweans, while ten are foreign-owned. The latter includes the main platinum properties, owned by Impala Platinum (South Africa), Aquarius Mining (Australia), Metallon Gold (South Africa) and Anglo American (now technically a British firm). The other main foreign players are Zimasco (Chinese) and Rio Tinto (British).Some international firms have decided to oblige both Gordon Brown and Robert Mugabe. After initially insisting that it would not pull out, British supermarket group Tesco announced that until the crisis ends it will no longer source products from Zimbabwe. Tesco--which purchases produce worth an estimated PS1m (US$2m) per year from the country--has faced accusations that it buys fruit and vegetables from farms taken illegally from their white owners. In a statement announcing the decision, Tesco said it wanted to support the workers who depend on the trade for their livelihoods, but that it could not ignore Zimbabwe's escalating political crisis.Meanwhile German bank-note manufacturer Giesecke & Devrient has cancelled its contract to supply notes to the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe (RBZ). Fidelity Printers, the RBZ subsidiary which prints the notes using paper, software and equipment supplied by the German group, admits that this will no longer be feasible. It claims to have various options for circumventing this German sanction, including buying notes printed by the South African Reserve Bank, accessing notes from China or, perhaps as an interim arrangement, revaluing existing notes. The central bank could even stop printing Zimbabwe dollars all together, which also makes sense as the population is moving away from using the currency, and instead trading in goods or foreign currencies. However, given that the government relies on the RBZ printing money to cover its deficits, this option is likely to be unpopular with the political hierarchy. Oil multinational Shell is the latest firm to withdraw, announcing that it will sell its share in the "small retail joint venture" it operates with BP in Zimbabwe. BP, which is by far the major player in the Zimbabwean market, says it has no such plans to pull out, while petroleum products group Engen intends to buy the Shell interests, and is taking "a long-term view" that the economy will recover.Others under pressure to "reconsider" are Barclays and Standard Chartered Banks, British American Tobacco, Rio Tinto and Unilever. All say they have no plans to withdraw, mostly because they believe that such a move would do more harm to the Zimbabwean population than to the Mugabe regime. Britain's Waitrose supermarket group, which sources fish from Lake Kariba, has also rejected pressure to withdraw.This stance is backed by a prominent US trade economist, Gary Hufbauer, who describes sanctions against an economy in free fall as "a fatuous gesture", adding that: "Mr Mugabe has managed to do everything to ruin the economy already. What more do you want to do?"