Rio Tinto Downgrades 2019 Iron Ore Guidance After Recent Cyclonesnikitos77/Adobe StockMiner Rio Tinto released its first-quarter production results this week and downgraded its 2019 iron ore guidance on the heels of the recent cyclones battering the Western Australia coast.Need buying strategies for steel? Request your two-month free trial of MetalMiner's Outlook"Our iron ore business faced several challenges at the start of this year, particularly from tropical cyclones," Rio Tinto CEO JS Jacques said in a prepared statement. "As a result, and following the continuing assessment of damage at the port resulting from the cyclones and other minor disruptions, 2019 guidance for Pilbara shipments is reduced to between 333 and 343 million tonnes."The quarterly operational performance in our other products was solid, generally higher than last year. Our focus remains on safety, delivering our 'value over volume' strategy and allocating capital with discipline, to continue delivering superior returns to our shareholders in the short, medium and long term."The new guidance for Pilbara iron ore shipments -- of 333 million-343 million tons -- is down from previous guidance of 338 million-350 million tons.Pilbara iron ore shipments reached 69.1 million tons in the first quarter, down 14% year over year. Pilbara iron ore production of 76.0 million tons marked a 9% decline from Q1 2018."Production was significantly impacted by the weather disruptions in March and a fire at Cape Lambert A in January," the Rio Tinto announcement states. "These events will have an impact on second quarter performance."Last month, Tropical Cyclone Veronica battered the northwestern Australia coast, leading to damages at the Cape Lambert A port terminal. The weather event led to the miner declaring force majeure on some iron ore contracts.Earlier this month, Rio Tinto said the impact of Tropical Cyclone Veronica amounted to 14 million tons of iron ore production.MetalMiner's Annual Outlook provides 2019 buying strategies for carbon steelMeanwhile, in other materials:Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service