Rio Tinto and ChinalcoUnderminedIT WAS a deal Rio Tinto had been resisting for months. But in the end, every other option must have seemed worse. Rio is buried under a huge debt burden after heavy investment in capacity during the suddenly vanished commodity boom, and its purchase of Alcan in 2007. With the financial markets all but closed, the mining giant was up against the wall.For China, flush with cash and looking for guaranteed sources of commodities to feed its factories and mills, it was an opportunity that had as much to do with geopolitical strategy as financial investment. On February 12th the Aluminum Corporation of China (Chinalco), a state-owned enterprise, announced that it would invest $19.5 billion in Rio, in two tranches. Chinalco will pay $12.3 billion for stakes of up to 50% in nine of Rio's mining assets, and will also buy $7.2 billion of bonds convertible into shares, in effect giving it the right to own just under 20% of Rio.The total, coincidently or not, is sufficient to pay off debts maturing over the next two years--a period that Rio's chief executive, Tom Albanese, warned would probably be "difficult", which was putting it mildly. Chinalco said its investment would be financed by Chinese financial institutions, adding that there had already been various discussions--which suggests that the government has already granted its approval.Rio's shareholders are likely to have mixed feelings. The price offered for the assets was as much as 124% above their market value, according to the firm, though it is probably just a fraction of what could have been achieved only months ago when BHP Billiton was pursing a takeover. Alternative methods of financing, notably a rights offering, would have certainly been dilutive and, according to Mr Albanese, perhaps not even feasible. In apparent disagreement was James Leng, chairman of Corus, a big steelmaker. Mr Leng abruptly announced his resignation as Rio's chairman-designate on February 9th.Whether the deal will go ahead now hinges on political considerations. Australia's Foreign Investment Review Board has been wary of offers from Chinese state-owned enterprises, particularly if they give the buyer some sort of pricing or production power. On February 12th the finance minister said the government wanted to amend its takeover laws to go beyond straightforward acquisitions and encompass complex investments--a fair description of the Rio-Chinalco deal and others percolating under the surface. 