Russia’s cooked booksEVEN by Russian standards, it shows impressive ingenuity. Norilsk Nickel, which owns one of the world's richest mineral deposits, hopes to turn three nuclear submarines (minus their intercontinental ballistic missiles) into freighters, each capable of carrying 12,000 tons of cargo from Russia's icy far north, faster and more reliably than allowed by the current means of transport--clapped-out nuclear ice-breakers.But the market is digesting something else. Norilsk's financial management is distinctly tinny. In May the board said, alarmingly, that it was pledging a 38% share in its core production subsidiary to secure a $200m loan from an unknown source. Now it has failed to publish western-style accounts for 1999, which analysts were promised by August. United Financial Group (UFG), a Moscow investment bank, estimates that these will show 1999 earnings of $590m, compared with nearly $1 billion declared under Russia's murky and eccentric accounting rules. Norilsk says it plans to release the results by the beginning of October. Most analysts in Moscow are still touting the shares as a "buy". Norilsk is far from the worst, they argue. Sberbank, for example, the country's biggest financial institution, released 1998 and 1999 western-style accounts only this summer--and only to one outside director, who has yet to share them with the public. Other companies are even further behind. "In the first report I wrote on a Russian company, in early 1997, one of my key investment points was the imminent release of its IAS [International Accounting Standards] results," recalls Kim Iskyan, a Moscow financial veteran. He and the world are still waiting.Not that investors should pay too much attention to any kind of accounts in a country in which evading rules is a national pastime. Indeed, some of the earliest firms to publish IAS accounts have been among the dodgiest. "Some past corporate-governance nightmares, such as the oil majors Sibneft and Yukos, have been very quick to adopt western accountancy standards, as a quick way of polishing their image," says James Fenkner, of Troika Dialog, an investment bank. The truth is that investors, however greedy and amnesiac, still have very little hope of working out what Russian companies are really worth. Optimists see this as an opportunity. "If you assume that transparency can only improve, the discount assigned to the assets can only go down," argues Mr Iskyan--also assuming, of course, that the shares have not already been snapped up by equally rosy-minded punters.