Russian industrySocialism in one companyAT THE top of Lenin Street, a block of stone commemorates the new Soviet men and women who came to this grim sliver of Siberia to build Norilsk Nickel after Stalin's death. Not for much longer. In 1998, the monument will be rededicated to the real pioneers--the hundreds of thousands of slave labourers who first broke this frozen earth back in the 1930s.Changing a monument is easy enough. Norilsk's other Soviet legacies, unfortunately, have proved more difficult to reverse. One of these is the Soviet-style welfare state, in which companies supplied not only goods, but social services too. In a command economy, this was just about workable; in a market economy, it is not. Norilsk Nickel employs 18,000 people whose job is to run an elaborate infrastructure of housing, health care, saunas, sports clubs, holiday homes, day-care centres, and even pig and dairy farms. But Norilsk Nickel's operating profits have been dropping, and paying for the whole city's health and holidays is a financial drain that the company can ill afford. For the first nine months of last year, analysts estimate Norilsk Nickel made perhaps 1.5 trillion roubles ($260m) but had to spend at least that much on social benefits. Norilsk Nickel's total debt is inching towards $2 billion.Uneximbank, the capitalist firm that bought 38% of Norilsk Nickel for $618m in a controversial auction last summer, wants Norilsk Nickel to get out of social work. It would like the government in Moscow to renovate Norilsk's amenities and then transfer them to the city. The city, which dominates the region of perhaps 250,000 people, is less enthusiastic. It would rather use several trillion roubles of federal money to pay for the resettlement of perhaps a third of Norilsk's residents. Moscow insists that the city and plant need to work out their problems before it will offer a kopeck; there is no allocation for Norilsk in the 1998 draft budget.Norilsk is in no position to take up the slack if Norilsk Nickel stops providing services. And there is little hope of attracting new business to such a cheerless place, 200 miles (320km) north of the Arctic Circle, where male life expectancy is 50 and the air is grubby with pollution. The main smelter belches seven times more sulphur dioxide than America's entire metals industry. The natural environment is no kinder. In the few weeks of the year that Norilsk is not freezing, mosquitoes whine through the acrid air.Town and plant are inseparable. Norilsk employs a total of 110,000 people--everyone in Norilsk, that is, less a few kiosk vendors--and accounts for 80% of tax revenues. Without investment to spruce up its deteriorating plant, Norilsk Nickel will become uncompetitive, despite its stock of natural resources. This consists of the world's largest nickel reserves (35% of world nickel supply), 10% of the world's copper, 40% of its platinum, and substantial deposits of cobalt and palladium. Social burdens make it difficult to finance such investment, as even Norilsk Nickel's trade-union representative, Valery Melnikov, acknowledges. But if the company does not pay for these services, who will?That unhappy question is being asked in company towns across Russia. As late as 1993, social benefits accounted for a third of Russia's total wage bill and more than 10% of industrial employment. Since then, there has been a general redistribution of company responsibilities to individuals and local and national governments. More than half of enterprise-owned housing stock has been privatised since 1992. Many kindergartens, another common enterprise-provided benefit, were either shut down or transferred to local authorities. Holiday camps were closed or sold to private companies. Houses of culture were often turned into casinos. Hospitals and clinics mostly stayed open, but are run by local government and financed through health-insurance premiums.It is one of Russian capitalism's many quirks that the least successful companies--the lumbering state enterprises--tend to offer the most generous benefits. Fewer than a quarter of private companies started since 1991 provide child care, for example, whereas two-thirds of state-owned smokestack industries do.For all its bleakness, Norilsk Nickel can expect to muddle through. Moscow has designated it a strategic asset and therefore will keep it from collapsing. Its technology and management are not too terrible: production rose 15% in 1997. Miners are unhappy with dirty and unsafe working conditions, but reasonably co-operative. Of the six strikes since perestroika, none has affected production. "Operationally, it's very efficient," says James Fenkner, managing partner of CentreInvest Securities in Moscow. "It's above the ground that's the problem."In the short term, some social services will be shut or privatised and others scaled back. Local government will gradually assume new responsibilities. And residents will cover more of their costs, which many can afford to do. Wages have always been high to lure workers. A miner makes about $600 a month--when wages are paid, that is--more than triple the national average. The shops are hardly lavish, but residents can and do buy Belgian chocolates, Italian cheese and Korean VCRs.Eventually, though, Norilsk will have to shrink for Norilsk Nickel to prosper. The costs of providing social support for someone north of the Arctic circle are about $2,000 a year more than elsewhere, whereas resettlement imposes a one-off cost of only about $4,000. Many residents came to Norilsk thinking that they would stay for five years or so, save some money and return home. When the Soviet Union fell apart, they were stranded. Hyperinflation destroyed their savings; and if they leave Norilsk, they will have to find new work and buy or rent a house at market rates. Given encouragement, many of these unhappy souls, particularly pensioners, would be extremely happy to leave. The World Bank has offered to help pay for a resettlement programme, but the details are fuzzy.For company towns in the same situation as Norilsk, but not as rich or important, the outlook is much worse. They will stop providing free social amenities, or they will maintain them and go further into debt. Either way, workers will ultimately be the biggest losers. 