ScrappedGEORGE BUSH'S decision last year to slap illegal tariffs on imported steel risked sparking a trade war with the European Union and other big steel traders, such as Brazil, South Korea and Japan. But Mr Bush seemed prepared to pick that fight in order, as he saw it, to save the American steel industry--an industry stuttering along with too many companies, operating on too small a scale, with too many pensions to pay. On Thursday December 4th, however, the president's fight came to an end with the announcement that the tariffs were being dismantled, 16 months earlier than originally planned. But this was no defeat, you understand. On the contrary, Mr Bush has, in effect, declared victory and gone home.What kind of victory can he claim? In the 20 months since the tariffs were imposed, the steel industry has consolidated. Some ailing steel firms, such as National Steel and Bethlehem Steel, have been gobbled up by larger competitors. The industry's largest union, the United Steel Workers of America, has agreed to more flexible work practices, profit-sharing and even some redundancies in order to give its remaining members a fighting chance of saving their jobs. Just as important, demand for steel is picking up: the world may face a supply shortage and a price spike next year, predicts World Steel Dynamics, a research firm. All of this has happened since the tariffs were introduced, but did any of it happen because they were introduced? Gary Clyde Hufbauer of the Institute for International Economics (IIE), a Washington think-tank, warns against the post hoc ergo propter hoc fallacy. That won't bother Mr Bush, who is not known for his command of Latin. He is claiming full credit for the changes wrought in the steel industry since his tariffs were imposed. But if anything, the tariffs simply delayed the inevitable. By artificially raising the price of steel, they added to the profits of ailing firms, making them more expensive to acquire. Europe went through a similar round of mergers a decade or more ago without the help of tariffs. The trade barriers Mr Bush repealed on Thursday were a comfort blanket, not a spur, for the industry. But America's steelmakers can now find plenty of consolation elsewhere. The falling dollar, for example, has done as much as any tariff to make foreign steel more expensive: when Mr Bush announced the tariffs in March 2002, one dollar was worth about EUR1.15; now it is worth about 83 euro cents.Much else has changed since the beginning of last year. Back then, American manufacturing was losing jobs at the rate of 100,000 or more per month. Those who agitated for the steel tariffs tried to paint manufacturing's woes as their own. Now, however, those woes appear to be ebbing. The haemorrhage of jobs from the manufacturing sector has been staunched: only 17,000 were lost in November. The Institute of Supply Management's monthly survey of manufacturing activity hit its highest level for 20 years in November. For the first time in over three years, the survey found as many managers hiring workers as firing them.Besides, the tariffs were not universally loved by American manufacturers. A boon to steelmakers, they were the bane of steel users further up the manufacturing "value chain", who saw cheap imports as a blessing not a curse. As many as 26,000 jobs (or the equivalent number of work hours) in steel-using industries may have been lost because of the tariffs, according to the IIE. As a result, the American rustbelt does not speak with one voice on this issue. On Tuesday, Mr Bush was in Pittsburgh, a big steel town and home of the Pittsburgh Steelers football team. There, he heard calls to stand firm on the steel tariffs, and collected a campaign contribution of $850,000 to help keep his mind open on the issue. But on the previous day he was in Michigan, near a Ford plant, hearing calls to cave in. The president, said the New York Times, was caught in a "political vice".The European Union's threat of retaliation added to the pressure. It was poised to impose tariffs on trade worth up to $2.2 billion, targeting exports from states that will be vital to Mr Bush's re-election campaign, such as Florida and Wisconsin. The scale of the threat was daunting--ten and 20 times greater, respectively, than the retaliation provoked by disputes over bananas and beef hormones. If America had not backed down, its standing at the World Trade Organisation would have been sorely damaged--indeed, the viability of the WTO itself would have been in question. What use are trade rules if the world's big economies refuse to abide by them?By backing down, Mr Bush has averted these dangers. The WTO (not to mention European consumers of Florida orange juice or Harley Davidson motorcycles) can breathe a sigh of relief. But transatlantic disputes still rage over the tax code of America's exporters and the genetic code of its export crops.That said, a tiny fraction of the hundreds of billions of dollars of trade that crosses the Atlantic each year is in dispute. Agriculture apart, tariffs between the European Union and the United States are generally low or non-existent. Which is not to say that trade is even close to being entirely free. Anti-dumping duties are a more fashionable (and more insidious) form of protectionism these days. On Thursday, Mr Bush said he would keep America's system of licensing and monitoring steel imports and he promised to act promptly against any country judged to be selling its steel below cost in American markets. To the connoisseur of protectionist folly, Mr Bush's double-digit steel tariffs always seemed a bit retro--a throwback to the days when protectionists were unapologetic and unabashed. Thursday's decision, then, brings the president's outmoded trade policy back into vogue.