Security in ColombiaGuerrilla minersOunce for ounce, more valuable than cocaineWHEN last September government forces seized computer hard drives and memory sticks belonging to "Mono Jojoy", the military commander of the FARC who was killed in an assault on his camp, officials said they had struck a gold mine of information about the inner workings of Colombia's main guerrilla group. It turned out that they had also gained data about real gold mines under the FARC's control, as Juan Manuel Santos, Colombia's president, revealed this month. With the price of gold close to record levels, and with government action having reduced the guerrillas' income from kidnapping and drugs, some FARC fronts are now financing themselves through illegal mining. In captured e-mails, guerrilla leaders offered to pay for weapons, munitions and other supplies with gold, according to Mr Santos. A police investigation predating the discovery of the files found evidence that the FARC controlled up to 15 gold mines just in Bolivar department, in northern Colombia. Officials say that in some areas the FARC mines gold directly whereas in others it extorts "tax" payments from small-scale, and mainly illegal, miners. Criminal gangs that have sprung from the remnants of right-wing paramilitary groups have also gone into mining. Officially Colombia is in the second tier of world gold producers, with an output of 48 tonnes in 2009. The real figure is higher. Much gold mining has long been by unregulated miners. They are among the worst despoilers of Colombia's environment, releasing mercury in rivers and clearing forest. Mercury levels in the air in Segovia, in Antioquia department, have been measured at up to 28 times the level considered safe by the World Health Organisation. The government is now cracking down on the illegal miners. Police have shut down 56 outfits controlled by the FARC or the neo-paramilitaries, arresting 573 people. Mr Santos wants to "formalise" legitimate small-scale miners, subjecting them to government regulation, while stripping the guerrillas and criminal groups of their new source of income. 