ShippingThe peaks and troughsTHE boom in commodities is mature but far from a slump. Container shipping, which carries many manufactured goods, is healthy. Yet bulk-shipping rates have plunged by more than 55% since early December. Why? The reason is largely steel. Its raw materials, iron ore and coking coal, are the commodities that pushed dry bulk freight rates up sixfold between mid-2002 and their sudden peak in December. Even now, as measured by London's Baltic Exchange, these rates are up threefold since the levels of three years ago. The cause of the slump lies in China. As world steel prices have begun to slide, those of China's once ever-expansive steel industry have collapsed: hot-rolled coil, a benchmark product, that was fetching $650-700 a tonne two months ago has been on offer there at around $480. So the steelmakers have slowed their raw-material imports. The shipowners are not yet crying into the champagne glasses they filled in the boom. A Chinese government minister recently predicted that his country's bulk trade would grow from 4 billion tonnes a year to 6 billion by 2010. But new ships are pouring into the market.Container shipping is much better placed. China's export boom is still doing nicely, and America's big west-coast ports are still inefficient and congested, which means shipping capacity is lying idle. As an official of Yang Ming shipping line recently put it: "We remain on a very high plateau." But his main message was different; at the other side of the plateau he foresees a drop in his company's earnings, of maybe 15-50% over the next three to five years. Few analysts would challenge him. China may fight off the hostility to its export drive. Port congestion may remain a problem. But new ships are pouring into the container market as well. China's biggest shipping group, COSCO, with vessels of all types, is about to be floated on the Hong Kong stockmarket. With analysts foreseeing COSCO's still-soaring profits sliding in 2006, the reception of this launch may indicate whether pessimists outnumber optimists. 