SINTEF to Coordinate EU Rare Earths Recycling ProgramIt looks as though "the EU has tapped 7 major European research institutes including Fraunhofer, CEA, TNO and SINTEF for Value from Waste, a program aimed increasing the recovery rate of rare earth metals from scrap," reports Environmental Leader."Rare metals such as neodymium and dysprosium are key materials in many green technologies such as generators that store power in wind turbines, and the electric motors that propel electric and hybrid cars. Currently China supplies the entire world with the products and demand is currently increasing much faster than production. Forecasts show that as early as next year, these metals will be hard to come by, SINTEF says."FREE Download: The Monthly MMI(r) Report - covering the Rare Earths market."The project's aim is to extract valuable materials from the waste streams. The challenges lie in the fact that the material must be sufficiently clean in order to be recycled, and recyclers have to be sure that it is not contaminated by other harmful materials, according to project coordinator SINTEF.""Researchers are therefore focusing much of their work on finding out which products could contain pollutants, which methods are best for analyzing and measuring the content of the polluted materials, and when such products can be expected to be found in waste."In metal price news for rare earths...Along with the other metals on the weekly Rare Earths MMI(r), cerium oxide saw little change in its price this week. Dysprosium oxide remained unchanged for the week. The price of europium oxide did not change since the previous week.* Get the complete prices every day on the MetalMiner IndX(sm)Following a steady week, prices for lanthanum oxide closed flat. Neodymium traded sideways last week. Neodymium remained unchanged for the week. Prices for neodymium oxide remained constant.Praseodymium oxide remained essentially flat from the previous week. The week finished with no movement for rare earth carbonate. Samarium oxide prices held steady from the previous week. The week finished with no movement for terbium metal.Terbium oxide remained essentially flat from the previous week. Following a steady week, prices for yttria closed flat. Yttrium remained unchanged for the week.The Rare Earths MMI(r) collects and weights 14 global rare earth metal price points to provide a unique view into rare earth metal price trends. For more information on the Rare Earths MMI(r), how it's calculated or how your company can use the index, please drop us a note at: info (at) agmetalminer (dot) com.