South African gold miningThe pursuit of HarmonyA MILE below ground, men strip to the waist and sweat rivulets. Trucks packed with explosives rattle by on ill-lit rails. An earthquake has cracked the ceilings and loosened wooden supports. Your correspondent is told that if he gets into trouble, the rescue team is not around: they have gone to help at the mine next door, where 1,000 miners have been trapped by the tremor. (All but two were saved.) Digging for gold is hot, hard and dangerous work.It is also the foundation upon which South Africa's economy was built. Johannesburg would be a treeless, unpeopled plateau without gold. As recently as 1980, this beautiful, relatively useless metal accounted for a fifth of GDP and half of South Africa's exports. Now, gold accounts for a mere 5% of GDP. In the late 1980s, when gold fetched more than $400 an ounce, South Africa's great mining houses took a cavalier approach to costs. Getting a drill mended required the approval of multiple managers, sometimes leaving mining teams idle for days. Three or four firms might work the same lode, each with its own shafts, hostels, shops, clinics and even golf courses. Sitting, as they do, on the richest ore deposits in the world, South Africa's big producers could afford to be lavish.Such easy times are now gone. The price of gold slipped below $280 this week. On May 7th the Bank of England became the latest central bank to announce that it would sell part of its gold reserves; the IMF is threatening to do the same. Falls in the gold price often trigger falls in the rand, which partly compensates the gold exporters. But the costs of some key inputs have soared. In the late 1980s, as apartheid crumbled, the labour unions won huge pay increases for black miners. The workers, who often live in hostels far from their families and besieged by prostitutes, are riddled with HIV: with between a fifth and a third of gold miners infected, the costs of treating the sick and replacing the dead are rising fast.Faced with such troubles, mining houses are scrambling to restructure, cut costs, and make themselves more attractive to foreign capital. Sprawling conglomerates such as Anglo American and Gencor have consolidated their various gold interests into single, gold-only firms, and spun them off. Mines are increasingly run not by engineers, but by businessmen, such as Bobby Godsell, chief executive of AngloGold, and Chris Thompson, chairman of Gold Fields. The greatest strides, however, have been made by a little-known former contractor called Harmony.The secret, according to Bernard Swanepoel, Harmony's chief executive, is to stop trying to influence the gold price and concentrate on operations. Since taking charge in 1995, Mr Swanepoel has cut Harmony's hierarchy from roughly 20 layers of management to five. Strict divisions between disciplines have given way to multi-disciplinary teams. Rock-breakers work with geologists and surveyors to make sure that only profitable grades of ore are mined. Anyone who instead digs waste--common practice a few years ago--is fired. The workforce has been slashed from 34,000 in the early 1990s to 12,000 today, a third of whom work in newly acquired mines.All this was achieved without much protest from the unions. Given South Africa's history, this is impressive. Lethal strikes and burnt offices have long been the way that black labourers communicated with their white bosses. The National Union of Mineworkers' website says: "A country that retains within it a sector as racist, as authoritarian and as exploitative as the South African mining industry [cannot call itself] a democracy." But much of this is bluster. These days, unions concentrate less on politics, and more on working with management to keep the mines from going bust.Five years ago, Harmony was near bankruptcy. Its mines were old, the ore grade low. Mr Swanepoel explained the crisis to the unions, and won their agreement to the necessary layoffs. Harmony was the first mining firm to employ full-time union officials, complete with offices and mobile telephones, to ensure constant dialogue. Good labour relations made it easier for Harmony to win exemptions from some of South Africa's burdensome labour regulations. When unions and management both lobbied for a longer working week, the government could not refuse. "The mine would have closed if we hadn't all pulled together," says Elliot Mzamo, a union official.For those who remained, Harmony offered the chance of higher wages. Members of the most productive teams can add 60% to their base pay. Promotion for black workers is easier now; at one time the law banned it. Streamlining and incentives have made Harmony the most productive gold-mining firm in South Africa. Its miners blast and clear roughly six square metres (64.6 square feet) of rock, per man, per month. The industry average is about four square metres. (Miners measure in square metres, not cubic ones. The chunks they blast are only a few centimetres thick.) With much poorer ore than its peers, Harmony achieves similar returns. The firm has begun to buy up other nearly exhausted mines, and squeeze extra life out of them. Total output passed 1m ounces this year, making Harmony the fourth-largest producer in the country.As other companies copy Harmony's cost-cutting techniques, the South African gold industry will probably achieve reasonable margins even if the price remains depressed. All the mining bosses insist that gold will recover, but many secretly fear that it won't. Rising demand for necklaces and nose-rings in India cannot make up for the fact that central banks want to keep less of their reserves in gold. Any future rise in the gold price will probably prompt them to sell, pushing it back down again. Mr Swanepoel argues that a plunge on Wall Street might scare investors away from paper. But he won't bet the firm on it.