South African diamondsRough and tumbleCAN South Africa put more shine on the diamonds that it mines? It is the world's fourth-largest producer by value, with 12% of global output. Yet its cutting and polishing sector is small, employing about 2,000 people. Most of its stones get exported in rough form, to be cut in Belgium, China, India or Israel. Now the government is keen to create jobs and add value to the country's diamond exports by boosting the local cutting and polishing industry, and by having more jewellery-makers at home. This seems like a good idea. But the way it is planning to go about it is raising eyebrows in the industry. A bill now before parliament includes provisions to set up a state diamond trader and exchange, which would manage imports and exports, buying a share of local production for the local cutting market. An export levy on rough diamonds is also being planned. The mining industry argues that this is likely to hurt extraction and do little to develop the downstream diamond industry, which needs incentives such as tax breaks, rather than regulation, to flourish. Meanwhile, the export levy would hit diamond mining. The Chamber of Mines of South Africa reckons that the proposed law could create up to 1,000 jobs in cutting and polishing diamonds, but destroy 12,000 in mining them. Small diamond producers are likely to suffer most. Critics also say that the private sector is doing a good job of buying and selling diamonds, and that the government should not meddle. De Beers, which extracts about 90% of South Africa's diamonds, says that more than nine out of ten carats produced locally are of relatively low value, in which South African buyers are not showing great interest. The mining giant points out that the mix of rough diamonds that get sold back in South Africa--after having been sorted and pooled in London by its Diamond Trading Company--are on average better and more expensive than those produced at home. Small producers sell their production on local diamond exchanges, but most of it still does not get cut and polished in South Africa. The Chamber of Mines points out that labour costs are much lower in India or China. It estimates that, with a 15% export levy, less than 5% of the local production could be cut profitably at home. The government is not convinced that this is indeed the case. It wants to make more diamonds available and monitor the local appetite for them. At this stage, the level of the export levy, and how much the state trader will actually buy, are still to be decided. The government is keen to have the bill passed by early November. If it meets that deadline, it will be a rough and unpolished piece of legislation.