South Korean industryAnother day, another girderWHEN Chung Tae Soo, the former owner of the bankrupt Hanbo Steel firm, appeared in an appeal court on August 18th after being convicted of bribing politicians and bankers, he claimed creditor banks treated his firm "unfairly". They had let it sink while keeping afloat other companies, such as a local liquor firm called Jinro. Mr Chung's future still looks cloudy. But Hanbo's prospects look brighter now that it is likely to be absorbed by Pohang Iron & Steel Co (POSCO)--a move that will help make the latter the world's largest steel maker. By 2000 POSCO will be able to produce 28m tonnes of steel a year. Hanbo will add another 2m tonnes. That should allow POSCO to elbow its old rival, Japan's Nippon Steel, from the top slot. This will boost South Korean pride, but will it help POSCO?By some measures Hanbo looks a bargain. POSCO has teamed up with Dongkuk Steel, a privately-owned firm, to offer 2 trillion won ($2.2 billion) for Hanbo's assets--even though they were recently valued at twice that. The low price would force the banks to write off 3.4 trillion won in loans. So far the banks have rejected the offer, but with no other bidders in sight they may have to sell to POSCO and Dongkuk. The problem for POSCO is that Dongkuk is getting the surest part of the deal--Hanbo's existing operations. POSCO by contrast is due to get Hanbo's unfinished steel mills, which may cost another 2 trillion won to complete. Unlike many South Korean giants, POSCO is efficient and profitable. It also has plenty of state-of-the art technology of its own. But it is buying at a time when overcapacity threatens the industry: the International Iron and Steel Institute reckons the world's steel production capacity is forecast to reach 1.2 billion tonnes by 2000, while demand will run at 822m tonnes. So why buy Hanbo? Cynics point out that a third of POSCO is owned by the government, and its president, Kim Man Je, was appointed in 1994 by the government to lead the firm. If POSCO helps to rescue one of South Korea's ailing firms, it might set a precedent for other private-sector conglomerates to do something similar.Hyundai, the biggest chaebol, has long aspired to get into the steel business, but it let Hanbo pass by. Perhaps that is because it is now more interested in the fate of rival Kia, South Korea's third-largest car maker. Kia was given a two-month breathing space by its bankers after its near-collapse in July. Samsung, which has its own ambitions in the motor industry, is also looking closely at Kia. Under the guise of helping lame ducks, the normally uncharitable chaebol could well end up commanding yet more of South Korea's economy.