South African goldPannedSOUTH AFRICA'S gold industry is being transformed. On January 28th Mzi Khumalo resigned as chairman of JCI, South Africa's first black-owned mining house, which had consistently disappointed investors. Barely five days later Gold Fields, a giant new gold company formed from the assets of Gold Fields and Gencor, listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange. It will be joined in June by Anglogold, a new company that will incorporate the gold interests of Anglo American and form the world's biggest gold producer. The country's 113-year-old gold industry is at last beginning to grapple with its long-standing lack of competitiveness, but there is a frightening amount to do.The activity is explained partly by a depressed gold price. Bullion hit an 18-year low of $280 a troy ounce in December, and has shown little vigour since. Yet even if the gold price had been stable, South Africa's producers would have faced an ugly mix of rising costs, ageing mines, low productivity and complex corporate structures. South African output fell to 493 tonnes in 1997, a 40-year low. Since 1988, the industry's average working margin has fallen by 84%, to 220 rand a tonne, and its total workforce has shrunk from 515,000 to 298,000. Last year Bobby Godsell, Anglo's labour-relations guru and Anglogold's chief executive, described his job as "nursemaid to an ailing industry" (see chart).Among the many remedies proposed in an industry whose accidents have claimed more black lives than the apartheid security police was black ownership. Mr Khumalo, who spent 12 years incarcerated on Robben Island with Nelson Mandela, was feted when his consortium bid 54.5 rand a share--2.9 billion rand in total--for Anglo American's controlling stake in JCI. The gold price at the time was close to $380. Industrial surgery would be more palatable, the thinking went, if mine owners had someone like Mr Khumalo at their side.A year later, the price of bullion had fallen by $100 and shares in JCI, the world's sixth-largest gold producer, had plunged to 16 rand. The predominantly white institutions that had backed the deal turned against Mr Khumalo when he failed to merge the firm with Lonrho, a British conglomerate. A shy man who shunned the limelight, Mr Khumalo's reputation was damaged further when it transpired that he was an autocrat who ignored JCI's board.While JCI has floundered, a wave of consolidation has engulfed its bigger rivals. It has been driven by the aspirations of Gold Fields and Anglogold to be world-class producers, with stockmarket ratings to match those of their North American peers. By merging individual mines into a single, listed company, buying out minorities, and pooling exploration projects with mineral rights and interests abroad, the new gold giants hope to spread risk and boost growth.Yet so far, investors are unimpressed. Gold Fields's new shares changed hands at 33 rand on their first day's trading, well below the 50 rand forecast in the pre-listing document. Agglomerating fragmented companies into wholly-owned, dedicated mining groups is only a first step. There is work ahead. The new groups have pledged to lower production costs below $250 an ounce. Even if profit margins grow, working costs at deep-level mines are unlikely to improve and all but three of Gold Fields's mines are in line for disposal. Job losses will be costly in financial and human terms: seven to ten people depend on the typical miner's wages, and many of those laid off will never find work again.Moreover, foreign fund managers are still wary of the new gold companies, because the old mining houses control vast blocks of shares that are the legacy of labyrinthine cross-holdings assembled during the years of South Africa's isolation. Consolidation will eventually create simpler structures, but until holding companies such as Gencor are dismantled, it will concentrate power in the hands of the biggest groups. There had better be an improvement soon. Before Gold Fields's listing, its chairman, Brian Gilbertson, defined failure in terms he may now regret: "If [our shares] go below 30 rand, we'll have people jumping out of windows here." 