South AfricaGolden handshakeA WINTRY July morning, and a ragtag queue of miners is forming outside the hostel that squats in the shadow of the mine's gold dumps. The men are well-wrapped up against the chill, in woollen hats and thick cardigans. But they are not queuing to go on shift; they are waiting at the union office for help, after being laid off. A few weeks ago, Randfontein gold mine announced that it would pay off 3,600 miners, a third of the workforce."I am very depressed about going home," says Domingos Jose Ngoveni, a Mozambican miner who has worked for 25 years at the mine, sunk into the desolate reef some 40 kilometres (25 miles) west of Johannesburg. Home is Maputo, Mozambique's capital, a full day's bus-ride away, where his wife and five children have lived without him all these years, supported by the money he sends back to them. As compensation, Mr Ngoveni will take home a package worth 12,800 rand ($2,800).Gold mines in South Africa, the world's biggest producer of the precious metal, face collapse. In recent weeks, the world gold price has plunged to its lowest level for 12 years. This has tipped ordinarily profitable mines over the edge, and into loss. Of the 26 big mines on the Witwatersrand gold reef, the arc of gold deposits that surrounds Johannesburg and was first discovered over a century ago, no fewer than seven were losing money in the first quarter of this year; Randfontein was among them. If the gold price does not recover for another year, the number could double.The decline of South Africa's gold mines has not taken place overnight. The country's share of the world's total gold output shrank from more than half in 1980 to just over a fifth last year. The industry has shed 180,000 jobs since the mid-1980s, or a third of the payroll. A further 50,000 jobs could go by the end of 1997. Already this year one company has shut down. One reason for this decline is geological. Unlike other parts of Africa, where gold lies conveniently close to the surface, South Africa's gold lies deep beneath the ground, sometimes at depths of over four kilometres. This makes it expensive, tricky and dangerous to dig out. Miners have to spend a long time travelling to the rock face. Once there, in the sweltering heat and stifling air, they work in harsh conditions. Over 300 gold miners die each year in South Africa's mines. At least 15 died this week in a single accident. Industrial relations are dismal. South Africa's mining companies, proud of their lineage from 19th-century pioneers, have a stuffy, patrician air. Mines tend to be run by managers as keen to preserve their perks and privileges as the social distance between themselves and their (black) workers. This has bred hostility, and resistance. Miners were at the rockface of anti-apartheid activity, pushing for less miserable conditions as well as for political rights. The National Union of Mineworkers (NUM) launched such top African National Congress leaders as Cyril Ramaphosa.The squeeze on gold is now wringing out some compromises. The NUM this month agreed to link wage increases to improvements in productivity, a concession managers have long sought. But at Randfontein the air is heavy with disappointment. The union accepts the company's explanation, that some job losses are inevitable if the mine is to stay open at all, but its members feel let down.They have one especially painful reason: JCI, the company that owns Randfontein, was bought last year by black businessmen. The company's new boss, Mzi Khumalo, visited the mine earlier this year, bringing the promise of a better life for miners. "We thought that he might know our background and what we need," says Phillemon Mohlala, a shop steward, "but nothing has changed."For each laid-off miner, up to ten dependants lose their chief source of income. This will suck the life from many villages, in South Africa as in its neighbours--Mozambique and Lesotho--where mines recruited workers directly. The company towns that grew up around the mines also face a battering. Solly Akoojee has for 21 years run a store that serves Randfontein's miners, selling acrylic cardigans and nylon trousers, cheap electronics and plastic luggage. Four nearby stores have recently closed. Now his, too, is empty of customers.Without a sustained upturn in the gold price, the future for South Africa's gold miners looks bleak. Randfontein is offering to arrange retraining for sacked miners, in welding or carpentry, for example. Few believe that this will secure them a new job. "In the whole country, there's no employment," says Harry Motlaanme, who has just lost his job after 20 years in the mine. 