SteelGrowing painsWHEN Wall Street collapsed in 1929, John Pierpont Morgan famously strode into the market to buy shares of US Steel, America's biggest steel company. When the next stockmarket collapse comes, anyone seeking to imitate his act of defiance will look to Nucor. That is because this obscure firm from North Carolina is about to become America's largest steel company. Nucor's rise owes much to Ken Iverson, the plain-speaking engineer who led the company for three decades. Mr Iverson masterminded the firm's transformation from a small producer of low-grade steel into a low-cost juggernaut with some 10m tonnes in output and $4 billion a year in sales. He achieved this by placing two bets that enabled him to outmanoeuvre established firms (chief among them US Steel). One was on a flexible, low-cost technology known as minimills; the other was on decentralised, non-union plants situated away from the large cities. Big firms with blast furnaces long maintained that minimills could produce only the lowest grades of steel; but, thanks to Mr Iverson's persistence and investment, Nucor today produces almost every grade of steel, except for the type used in cars.Yet, despite their success, both Mr Iverson and John Correnti, his hand-picked successor, have recently been unceremoniously booted out by Nucor's board of directors. Egos and ambitions played a role, but the main reason for their ejection was that the current boss, David Aycock, thought it was time for a shift in strategy. Since last year, the firm's financial performance has been poor (see chart). The Asian economic crisis is partly to blame: cheap imports of steel into America forced a price drop last year that hurt all domestic producers. But some worry that there may be more to Nucor's ills than that. There are signs that the new management is tinkering with the firm's successful approach to making steel. Mr Aycock, a Nucor veteran who led the boardroom coup against Mr Iverson, has just added a layer of management at headquarters, something Mr Iverson always resisted. He now talks of expanding overseas. He even utters what seems like heresy: he wants to build a blast furnace, the very symbol of old, integrated steel making. The key to Nucor's success, says Lou Pahountis of Andersen Consulting, has been in "serving niche markets in the lowest-cost fashion...and now I smell a deviation from that." What in the world is going on ?One concern raised by Mr Aycock's new layer of management is that the firm could eventually become top heavy, just like the rest of the steel industry. The American steel market has always been a surprisingly local business; even now, much of America's steel is sold within 100 miles (160km) of the plant that produces it. That is why Nucor's decentralised style has given it such an edge over what many call the "command-and-control" approach of integrated steel makers. Mr Iverson explains how pushing decisions down to the plant level and giving every employee profit or production incentives has cut costs by allowing Nucor flexibility in procurement and in its product mix.Some also worry about Mr Aycock's thoughts of setting up plants overseas. He says he has his eye on South America and Asia, so as to serve both local markets and the United States. "Nucor does not have to go overseas," insists Mr Iverson, who worries that the firm's culture will be difficult to export. "The company can continue to grow rapidly within the domestic market." Mr Aycock concedes that it will not be easy to go abroad, though he thinks local partners will help. But to be international is important, he says: "Steel is not just a local market any more, and our product must be global." At first sight the idea about blast furnaces is even more of a departure. For 30 years, Nucor has run rings around the firms that made steel using these inflexible, capital-intensive pieces of heavy-industrial machinery. Yet Mr Aycock says the blast furnace can deal with a weakness that could become critical as the firm grows. Unlike integrated firms, which use pig iron produced by blast furnaces, minimills rely mostly on scrap metal. According to Mr Aycock, a blast furnace can diminish the firm's reliance on the notoriously fickle scrap market. Mr Aycock insists that "it is a terrible misconception that integrated firms have to stay 'integrated', and minimills must stay 'mini'." Yet such words chill old Nucor lags. When Mr Aycock talks of growth, he leaves the door open for acquisitions. Mr Iverson set up plants from scratch. The new bosses at Nucor also want to expand, in time, beyond steel, the firm's base, to "other manufacturing areas where the Nucor model will work." Mr Aycock wants to keep stoking growth: he claims that over the next five years, Nucor can increase its output by half, to 15m-16m tonnes, while delivering annual growth in earnings per share of 10-15%. To achieve this, he wants to add institutions and practices so that its bosses are not perpetually flying by the seat of their pants--something that even Mr Iverson admits was a weakness. "Our size", insists Mr Aycock, "means the boss simply can't know everything that goes on." He has decreed that each top executive must have no more than seven plant managers reporting to him. In the past, the number reporting to Mr Iverson had grown to more than 20. He reckons this will mean better oversight and monitoring of costs. It may also provide a broader base of talent to succeed him. In a jibe at Mr Iverson, who is now 73, he says the firm will soon put in place a mandatory retirement age for its boss, of somewhere between 63 and 67. Mr Aycock, who is himself 68, promises to retire within the next three years.There is clearly some sense in what Mr Aycock says. However, there is also a big danger that, by admitting that Nucor needs to make all these "investments", the firm sheds its distinctive low-cost discipline. Whatever Mr Aycock intends, the effect of his changes could be to make Nucor seem more like an integrated steel maker. In the past, the firm's very identity has been based on its eschewing the methods of the old steel makers--even when they said it could not be done. As Andersen's Mr Pahountis notes, "the real difference between minimills and the integrated firms is a lot more than just the unions or the asset base: it is the business mentality." It is a tribute to the effectiveness of that mentality that, over the years, so many big integrated firm have tried to copy Nucor's methods by setting up their own minimills. And it is a warning to Mr Aycock that they have failed.