Steel Cut-to-Length Plate From 9 Countries Hit With Anti-Dumping DutiesThe Department of Commerce placed preliminary anti-dumping duties on imports of carbon and alloy steel cut-to-length plate (CTL plate) from nine countries. Some of the tariffs were as high as 130.63%.MetalMiner Price Benchmarking: Current and Historical Prices for the Metals You BuyAnti-dumping laws provides U.S. businesses and workers with a transparent, quasi-judicial, and internationally accepted mechanism to seek relief from the market-distorting effects caused by injurious dumping of imports.In the Austria investigation, Commerce preliminarily found that dumping has occurred by the sole mandatory respondent Bohler Edelstahl GmbH & Co KG, Bohler Bleche GmbH & Co KG, Bohler International GmbH, Voestalpine Grobblech GmbH, and Voestalpine Steel Service Center GmbH (collectively, Voestalpine) at a preliminary dumping margin of 41.97%.As Voestalpine is the only respondent for which the Department calculated a company-specific rate, for purposes of determining the "all others" rate, Commerce used the estimated weighted-average dumping margin calculated for Voestalpine. Therefore, Commerce calculated a preliminary dumping margin of 41.97% for all other producers/exporters in Austria.BelgiumIn the Belgium investigation, Commerce preliminarily found that dumping has occurred by mandatory respondents Industeel Belgium S.A. and NLMK Clabecq S.A., NLMK Plate Sales S.A., .NLMK Sales Europe S.A., NLMK Manage Steel Center S.A., and NLMK La Louvier S.A. (collectively, NLMK Belgium) at preliminary dumping margins of 2.41% and 8.98%, respectively. Commerce calculated a preliminary dumping margin of 8.50% for all other producers/exporters in Belgium.In the China investigation, Commerce preliminarily found that the sole mandatory respondent, Jiangyin Xingcheng Special Steel Works Co., Ltd., is not eligible for a rate separate from the China-wide entity. Additionally, Commerce preliminarily established a preliminary dumping margin of 68.27%, as adverse facts available, for the China-wide entity's failure to cooperate. Because Jiangyin Xingcheng Special Steel Works Co., Ltd. is the only respondent company in this investigation, Commerce did not determine a rate for all other producers/exporters in China. Further, Commerce did not postpone the deadline for the final determination because no interested parties requested a postponement.FranceIn the France investigation, Commerce preliminarily found that dumping has occurred by mandatory respondents Dillinger France S.A. and Industeel France S.A. at preliminary dumping margins of12.97% and 4.26%, respectively. Commerce calculated a preliminary dumping margin of 8.62% for all other producers/exporters in France.In the Germany investigation, Commerce preliminarily found that dumping has occurred by mandatory respondent AG der Dillinger Huttenwerke at a preliminary dumping margin of 6.56%. Commerce preliminarily found no dumping by mandatory respondent Salzgitter. Commerce calculated a preliminary dumping margin of 6.56% for all other producers/exporters in Germany.In the Italy investigation, Commerce preliminarily found that dumping has occurred by mandatory respondents NLMK Verona SpA and Officine Tecnosider s.r.l. at preliminary dumping margins of 12.53% and 6.10%, respectively. Mandatory respondent Marcegaglia SpA notified Commerce that they would not participate in this investigation. As a result, Commerce established a preliminary dumping margin of 130.63%, based on adverse facts available, for Marcegaglia SpA. Commerce calculated a preliminary dumping margin of 8.34% for all other producers/exporters in Italy.In the Japan investigation, Commerce preliminarily found that dumping has occurred by mandatory respondent Tokyo Steel Manufacturing Co., Ltd., at a preliminary dumping margin of 14.96%. Mandatory respondents JFE Steel Corporation and Shimabun Corporation notified Commerce that they would not participate in this investigation.As a result, Commerce established a preliminary dumping margin of 48.64%, based on adverse facts available, for these companies. Commerce calculated a preliminary dumping margin of 14.96% for all other producers/exporters in Japan.In the Korea investigation, Commerce preliminarily found that dumping has occurred by mandatory respondent POSCO at a preliminary dumping margin of 6.82%. Commerce calculated a preliminary dumping margin of 6.82% for all other producers/exporters in Korea.In the Taiwan investigation, Commerce preliminarily found that dumping has occurred by mandatory respondents Shang Chen Steel Co., Ltd. and China Steel Corp. at preliminary dumping margins of 3.51% and 28%, respectively. Commerce established a preliminarily dumping margin of 28%, based on adverse facts available, for China Steel Corp.'s failure to cooperate to the best of its ability. Commerce calculated a preliminary dumping margin of 3.51% for all other producers/exporters in Taiwan.As a result of the preliminary affirmative determinations, Commerce will instruct U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) to collect cash deposits based on these preliminary rates.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service