Steel Executives Enforce Existing Trade Laws and US Steel Industry Will ProsperThe US steel industry is suffering because a barrage of imports has reached a record 34% of market share, steel executives said today at the American Iron and Steel Institute's press briefing in Chicago.From right: Roger Newport, AK Steel: Regulo Salinas, Ternium Mexico; Jim Baske, ArcelorMIttal NA Flat-rolled; John Ferriola, Nucor Corp.; Chuck Schmitt, SSAB Americas and Thomas J. Gibson, AISI. Photo: Jeff Yoders.Nucor Corp. CEO John Ferriola said 4 million people whose livelihoods depend on the steel industry are at risk, but also that enforcing existing trade and anti-dumping laws consistently would make a wealth of difference for today's producers.What the EPA's Clean Power Plan Means For You"The first step is enforcing existing law as written," he said. "Legally and consistently enforcing the laws on the books would help immensely... The American worker is still the most efficient worker in the world. We have relatively inexpensive energy, we have the raw material available, we have the best market in the world. When you look at those natural advantages, it makes no sense we should be operating at 60-70% capacity while the rest of the world is overproducing."Ferriola was joined by AK Steel CFO/SVP Finance Roger Newport; Regulo Salinas, vice president at Ternium Mexico SA, Jim Baske, CEO ArcelorMittal North America Flat-Rolled, Chuck Schmitt, EVP and head of SSAB Americas and AISI President and CEO Thomas J. Gibson in the call for a flattened playing field between US producers and foreign companies exporting to our shores, particularly those from China."While many nations continue to engage in unfair trade practices, China is of particular concern," Baske said. "Last year, China exported 101 million tons. A surge of 60% over the previous year and that increase continued at record levels in the first quarter of this year. Some estimates are as high as 168 million tons. Steel demand in China declined last year and is expected to decline this year, too, according to the World Steel Association. China also manipulates its currency to give its products an unfair advantage."Baske also noted the business decisions US steelmakers have had to make due to declining prices due to the import surge and they are still in a difficult position due to what the glut has done to prices on the London Metal Exchange. "On Sept. 3, almost eight months ago, hot-rolled ran $676 a ton. Now it's $440 a ton," he said. "In any industry, a 35% to 36% price reduction in that period of time would put pressure on the business. Fair trade will correct it."The executives also noted that while bringing anti-dumping cases with the US International Trade Commission and the World Trade Organization has been somewhat successful, the process has not always worked in the favor of US producers. Even cases that were won, such as last year's rebar case against Turkey, have not had high enough tariffs to discourage dumping. Gibson said the standard in a safeguard case is higher than in a trade case and the AISI, and the industry as a whole, continue to evaluate all options under the law. Why is it that one of the most highly compensated CEOs is always whining boo-hoo when everyone else isn't playing fair.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service