Steel takeoversCast-ironAFP"MONKEY money" is how Guy Dolle, chief executive of Arcelor, charmingly dismissed a hostile bid earlier this year from Indian-born Lakshmi Mittal, who runs (and largely owns) Mittal Steel. That was the high point of his defence of Europe's biggest steelmaker. Since then Mr Dolle and Arcelor's chairman, Joseph Kinsch, have twisted and turned to escape Mr Mittal. None of their scheming would count as more than two old men's efforts to cling to their jobs, except that shareholders everywhere also have a stake in this fight. For the sake of investors in Europe, what matters is not just who wins Arcelor, but how the battle is resolved. The steel industry is consolidating. Mr Mittal's EUR25.8 billion ($32.3 billion) bid would create a huge producer nearly four times the size of its nearest rival. The match, steelmen judged, was a good one. Mittal could expand into Arcelor's high-margin markets, Arcelor could gain from Mittal's low-cost production. But Mr Dolle would have none of it. The offer was "150% hostile", priced too low and strategically misguided. Through management and ownership, the untrustworthy Mittal family would dominate. Although Mittal Steel is registered in the Netherlands and run out of London, it did not in some mysterious way share Arcelor's European "cultural values".Before long, that nasty little piece of Euro-nationalism was supplemented by opportunism and hypocrisy. First Messrs Dolle and Kinsch bundled Dofasco, a recently acquired Canadian steelmaker, into a holding structure designed to frustrate Mittal's plans to sell it on--a poison pill, if ever there was one. Next they proposed to scotch Mittal by merging with Severstal, an opaque metals firm controlled by a Russian tycoon who, without launching a bid, was to become the dominant shareholder of the combined group. So much for Mr Dolle's superior standards of corporate governance. The victims in all this are Arcelor's own shareholders--something that should worry investors in Europe. All along, Messrs Kirsch and Dolle have denied their own shareholders a proper shout. Investors had no say over Dofasco and they can stall the Severstal deal only if at least half of the shareholder register rejects the merger at a meeting in Luxembourg at the end of this month (see article). The threshold for such votes is usually a simple majority of those present: Arcelor's hurdle looks as if it was erected to be insurmountable.Arcelor insists it has done nothing wrong. Its articles of association and the law of Luxembourg, where it is incorporated, would allow the Severstal deal without any shareholder vote at all. Mittal has already raised its offer once and Mr Dolle says he is open to further offers that are higher still. That is disingenuous. Whether Mittal or Severstal would most benefit Arcelor shareholders is open to argument. Most analysts favour Mittal's improved offer, but Arcelor's board this weekend judged, as it is entitled to, the Russian deal to be better. The way to decide between the two is for Arcelor's shareholders to have a fair vote. It is their company, after all. That is the principle at stake here--and a good reason to hope that Arcelor investors now rush to sell their shares in the market to Mr Mittal, giving him the majority he needs. Managers are entitled to use the rules to push up a bidder's price and protect their company. But if they exploit the rules against their own shareholders' interests, by seeking to deprive investors of a choice, then the essential covenant between owner and manager is broken, whatever the small print. If Arcelor's managers get away with flouting that principle, shareholders everywhere in Europe will be the losers. 