Steel in poor countriesMore metal for MittalTHE massive Sidex steel plant emerges, black on green, from the watery margins of the Danube delta as a veritable satanic mill. Thank God for it, exclaim the locals. Sidex is about the only decent employer in Romania's wild and beautiful delta region. With 28,000 workers, it accounts for 4% of Romania's industrial output and 7% of its exports. Before it was sold earlier this month to LNM, a British-Indian steel company, for $52m, it was Romania's largest state-owned company. At one time closure looked more likely than sale. The plant had been haemorrhaging taxpayers' money for a decade. Nobody is quite sure how much; many deals were done on barter and energy bills were vague. The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which helped put the LNM deal together and considers it "vital" for Romania, reckons that Sidex could have been costing the state $300m a year.Unloading this vast plant would have been an achievement at any price. LNM's offer, which was finalised once the Romanian government had approved a debt-for-equity swap to reduce Sidex's debts, looks a fair one. It will shoulder a portion of the money Sidex owes to local banks, inject $350m, and keep on the entire workforce for the next five years. Still, Lakshmi Mittal, the Indian owner of LNM, clearly thinks these conditions are worth accepting. And he should know. Mr Mittal left India at the age of 25 and built his first steel mill in Indonesia. He has since made a speciality of turning around loss-making steel plants in odd places. Another recent acquisition was the clapped-out Annaba plant in Algeria. LNM is also bidding for four state-owned Polish steel mills that are due for privatisation, including the giant, hugely inefficient Huta Katowice. And earlier this month Mr Mittal announced plans to expand his interests in Africa by acquiring the steel-making division of ISCOR, a South African mining concern.Mr Mittal's thinking is elegantly simple: poorer countries need steel too. By buying Sidex, now renamed Ispat-Sidex (Ispat being Hindi for steel), he is betting heavily that the withered Romanian economy, still only 60% of its size when communism ended, will start to grow, and with it demand for automotive, shipbuilding and construction-grade steel.He will start by reclaiming the domestic market share that Sidex has lost. Renault-Dacia, Romania's biggest car maker, refuses to buy steel from Sidex, citing poor quality control. Mr Mittal thinks he can change Renault's mind. He also plans to produce more steel, despite overcapacity across the industry: production will be pumped up to 5m tonnes a year from the present 3m. With Sidex, LNM will become the world's fourth-largest steel producer.Mr Mittal reckons that Sidex might swing back into profit in 2003. But he is taking no chances. A new boss, Narenda Chaudhary, has already been brought in to replace the hapless, chain-smoking local management. Mr Chaudhary, a veteran of India's state-owned steel plants, earned his spurs at LNM overseeing the rapid turnaround of Ispat-Karmet, a steel plant in Kazakhstan. Observers consider Ispat-Karmet to be one of Kazakhstan's most successful privatisations. Industry insiders scratch their heads at how Mr Mittal managed to make a go of such a decrepit, remote plant. Sidex, with access to the Black Sea and European markets, might just be an easier proposition.