SteelTreating shareholders as pig iron"THIS is the Chernobyl of corporate governance," says Bernard Oppetit at Centaurus, a hedge fund in London. Like many investors in Arcelor, the biggest European steelmaker, Mr Oppetit is upset about the shabby treatment of shareholders by Arcelor bosses, as they attempt to fend off a hostile bid for their company by India's Mittal Steel. He and others are not prepared to continue to suffer in silence. They are rallying to force Arcelor bosses to give them more of a say in the decision over the company's future.AFPKinsch and Mordashov get intimateNews of Arcelor's latest defensive move against Mittal Steel took many investors by surprise. On May 26th the company unveiled a plan to merge with Severstal, a Russian steelmaker, to create the world's biggest steel company by sales with an output of some 70m tonnes a year and an estimated EUR46 billion ($58.9 billion) in annual sales. In the proposed deal Arcelor would buy the 90% stake of Severstal belonging to Alexey Mordashov, boss of Severstal, as well as all of his other steel and mining assets. Mr. Mordashov, in return, would receive Arcelor shares and buy more with cash. This will give him a 32% stake in the new Arcelor. Jutta Rosenbaum of Commerzbank speaks for many investment analysts, when she argues that the planned deal with the Russians is inferior to the proposed merger with Mittal Steel. Severstal has similar assets to Arcelor, but Mittal has a more extensive distribution network, a wider geographic reach and more market power. Moreover, some argue that Severstal's unlisted assets have been over-valued. And although Mr Mordashov is an impressive businessman, his close relations with Vladimir Putin, the Russian president, could easily degrade into a weakness when a new man is in the Kremlin in 2008. Investors question the planned deal's industrial logic, too. In a letter to Joseph Kinsch, chairman of Arcelor, Colette Neuville, head of ADAM, a French lobby for minority-shareholder rights, says that Arcelor has to explain to shareholders why Severstal is a better partner than Mittal. Ms Neuville doubts that governance at a Russian conglomerate listed in Moscow is better than that of a company listed in Amsterdam and New York, where listing requirements are especially stringent. And why, she asks, does Arcelor consider Severstal's mines as an asset when they complain about the mining business Mittal would bring to the party? What upsets shareholders most is Arcelor's cavalier attitude towards their rights. If all goes according to the plan of Mr Kinsch and Guy Dolle, Arcelor's chief executive, shareholders will be able to veto the Severstal transaction only if at least 50% of the shareholder base votes against it. That is unorthodox: the majority is usually cast in terms of those who voted. It is also unlikely: only about one-third of Arcelor's widely dispersed group of shareholders usually attend such meetings. Arcelor's bosses shrug off these concerns. In fact they claim that they are already going beyond the call of duty. According to company by-laws they do not have to ask for shareholders' opinion on the Severstal deal at all. Still the company's bosses are making some effort to win over their shareholders--wining and dining big investors in London this week. They argue that Severstal is a better company than Mittal because it is more efficiently managed, more profitable and invests more. Arcelor and Severstal know each other well after launching some joint ventures in Russia. And Arcelor wants to continue to be predator rather than prey. With Severstal, the company will become bigger and richer, and so will be in a better position to swallow smaller steelmakers in China and other emerging economies.Investors are unconvinced. Goldman Sachs is orchestrating a shareholder campaign to have a conventional vote on the Severstal deal. The bank has mustered support from almost a third of shareholders (considerably more than the 20% required by law), which will oblige Arcelor's board to call an extraordinary shareholder meeting to consider the rules for a vote on the Severstal deal. Some investors worry that Mr Mordashov might soon be in a position to take over the entire company. His 32% stake will increase to 38% after a buy-back of Arcelor shares (decided before the deal with Severstal was concluded), which will shrink the shareholder base. Under Luxembourg's law the owner of more than 33% of a company is obliged to make a full bid for the firm, but the duchy's regulator made an exception for Mr Mordashov. Arcelor says these worries are unfounded, because Mr Mordashov does not have the cash to take over all of the company. And under the terms of their agreement he had to pledge not to buy any more Arcelor shares in the next four years. Even so, things might change after Mr Dolle retires next year. As proposed chairman of the new Arcelor, the 40-year old Mr Mordashov would be an obvious candidate to take charge of the company. And what of Mittal Steel? Lakshmi Mittal, the firm's boss, says he remains determined to buy Arcelor. But he also says he will not sweeten his offer for Arcelor for a second time. Ten days ago he raised his offer from EUR18.6 billion to EUR25.8 billion.If Messrs Dolle and Kinsch were simply manoeuvring to get a better price from Mr Mittal, they would be doing shareholders a favour. But many investors think the two bosses of Arcelor are now driven primarily by wounded pride to do whatever they can to repel Mr Mittal. The worst of all possible outcomes, says one investor, would be a carve-up of Arcelor between Mr Mittal and Mr Mordashov. This would be bad for shareholders, who would not get a good price, and bad for employees who would face a higher risk of being laid off. The only justice would be towards Arcelor's top managers, who would certainly lose their jobs. 