Steeled for troubleI'VE JUST gotten back from Delhi's leafy diplomatic enclave, where CNN has a bureau. They wanted to know about the Tata Group, India's iconic business house. For me, the group's fascination lies in its peculiar mix of venerability and audacity--a unique combination of history and dash. It's 140 years old, but in the last eight years alone it's snapped up 38 companies. Tata Steel is based in Jamshedpur, a company town run with a paternalistic hand. It's one of the few places in India where you can drink water straight from the tap. I took a trip there a few months ago. The plant was emblazoned with the slogan: Will to Work; Will to Win. Inside, long strips of freshly rolled steel furled up like yoga mats. The metal is heated to 1400 degrees celsius, my guide told me, compared with the 160 degrees you need to cook a chapatti. Afterwards, I idled away an afternoon in the town's public gardens, watching children jump the flowerbeds, overseen by a statue of the company's founder, Jamsetji Tata. I have to wonder, though, what he would now think of the energetic leaps made by his descendant, Ratan Tata, who took over the group in 1991. Tata Steel shouldered $8 billion of debt to buy Corus, and Tata Motors took out a $3 billion bridging loan to buy Jaguar and Land Rover earlier this year. In both cases, the debt was palmed off to a semi-detached special-purpose vehicle. (Jamsetji's first balance sheet, drawn up in 1875, was a model of clarity by comparison.) Even though steel prices are still higher than they were when the Corus deal was consummated, the credit rating agencies are now taking a less forgiving view of the debt that still remains. And Tata Motors last month struggled to find takers for a rights issue that was supposed to help it pay off part of the bridge loan. Meanwhile, the product markets are as forbidding as the capital markets. Steel prices are cooling fast and the Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers said last week that sales of commercial vehicles, a market dominated by Tata's gaily painted trucks, fell by 36% in the year to October. As an economic symbol, this is the Indian equivalent of the empty container ships on the Chinese wharves. Any economic crisis that can take a Tata truck off the road suddenly feels very tangible indeed.On November 6th, Ratan Tata sent a bracing email to the members of his brood, ordering them to secure any financing they required as soon as possible and to start shaving rupees from their bottom lines. Tata's leaps and bounds have been fascinating to behold. They must now be hoping they don't get tangled in a thornbush. 