SteelmakingSteeled for worseAMID the choreographed announcements about Chinese investments in British business, news from one ailing industry provided an awkward backdrop to President Xi Jinping's state visit to Britain this week. On October 20th, as Mr Xi lunched with the queen, Tata Steel, the country's biggest steelmaker, announced that it would mothball two Scottish mills and scale down its operations in Scunthorpe. The previous day Caparo Industries, another steel firm, had called in administrators; and earlier this month SSI, the country's second-biggest steelmaker, had closed its site in Redcar. The number of people working in Britain's steel industry could now fall below 30,000, one-tenth the number employed in 1971. Many blame a rush of cheap imports--especially from China, which is accused of "dumping", or selling below cost to crush foreign rivals.Steelmakers are in trouble all across the world. Thanks to China, world steel production doubled in the 15 years to 2015. The country's annual output quintupled to 800m tonnes as it forged the beams and girders it needed to build railway lines and apartment blocks. China now makes half the world's steel. But its galloping economic growth is slowing, and its government is spending less on building. So China has a steel glut. The OECD, a rich-country club, estimates that world steelmaking capacity exceeds demand by up to 600m tonnes per year. China probably accounts for over half of that. Its annual exports have soared to 90m tonnes, overwhelming markets everywhere. Meanwhile, a plunging rouble has flooded European markets with cheap steel from Russia. Those who accuse China of predatory pricing have a point. According to figures from Metal Bulletin, a research outfit, Chinese companies typically export steel at prices 10% below what they charge locally--the textbook definition of dumping. The European Commission has imposed retaliatory duties on China several times this year, most recently on October 14th.But extra tariffs will not return the industry to profitability. With wholesale prices down by one-third this year, even the big Chinese steelmakers are losing money. In a normal market that would force the least efficient producers to quit the business. Not so with steel. Mills from Taranto to Tianjin are prized as strategic assets and big employers, meaning that governments don't let them shut down easily. They use anti-dumping measures, soft loans and cheap energy to keep their plants open. That pushes the adjustment onto countries which meddle less and have high energy prices. Britain fits the bill.This has led some in Britain to call for help for the industry. That would be tricky, since fiddling with energy prices might fall foul of the European state-aid rules (not to mention environmental commitments); tariffs are also set at the European level. But even if there were a way around these rules, a bail-out would be a mistake.For one thing, global overcapacity isn't going away any time soon, so a promise of aid would be a blank cheque. Nor would it nurse the industry back to health. If every country protected its producers, the glut could last into the next decade. Britain's steel industry is not strategically important: it accounts for 0.1% of employment and unlike German mills, which specialise in the alloys and sheeting used in the German car industry, much of what Britain makes is low-grade bars and rails. The country imports over half its steel.The industry's decline is dreadful for the 30,000 Britons who still make a living in the steelmills. But it would be worse to hit the rest of the country with an ongoing bill to prop up a single industry--all the more plainly so when such a plan would not work. Scunthorpe's metalworkers, who charged their first blast furnace in 1864, are forging on, for now. Sadly, there are probably further trials to come.