SteelBrazil, where the slabs come fromIT DID not exactly get a welcome in the hillsides. On July 5th Corus, an Anglo-Dutch steel maker, closed its Ebbw Vale plant in the South Wales valleys, ending more than 200 years of iron and steel making there. Only the previous day, the firm had confirmed that it was in talks with CSN, Brazil's largest steel maker, about some sort of link-up. This prompted fears of further closures, since CSN's production costs are far lower than those of Corus (the fusion of British Steel and Hoogovens of the Netherlands). As some of its rivals in America and elsewhere are doing, Corus may move towards buying its steel ready-made in big slabs from Brazil and concentrating on the business of rolling, bashing and chopping it into final products.Corus is the world's sixth-largest steel maker, producing 18m tonnes a year, three times CSN's capacity. But besides having high production costs, it worries that supplies of its main raw material, iron ore, are becoming concentrated in the hands of a few giant mining groups. CSN is thus an especially attractive partner because, besides being a cheap producer, it has its own iron-ore mine. Brazil's huge iron-ore reserves and the efficiency of its steel makers mean it can turn out steel slab at around $100 a tonne, less than half what it costs to make in America, says David Phelps, president of the American Institute for International Steel. Since America's blast furnaces are ageing and expensive to rebuild, some of its biggest steel firms, such as AK Steel and California Steel Industries (CSI), are resorting to importing Brazilian slabs. While other producers earlier this year pressed President George Bush to impose tariffs of up to 30% on many foreign steel products, these firms successfully lobbied Mr Bush to exempt Brazilian slabs by giving them a generous low-tariff import quota.Other countries, such as South Africa and India, which have lots of iron ore and a local steel industry, could eventually follow Brazil and become big exporters of cheap steel slabs for companies in consumer countries to bash into shape, says Tom Meyer, a steel analyst at UBS Warburg. But they have less chance of becoming big exporters of finished products, because the end users, such as car makers, may prefer having their sheets, plates and tubes knocked up locally, thus making it easier to change specifications rapidly, and reducing the need to keep big stockpiles in case of shipping delays. Moreover, low-cost producers have a better chance of avoiding rich-world trade barriers with raw slabs than with finished products.If its deal with CSN goes through, Corus will not be the first rich-country steel maker to take a direct stake in Brazil's competitive slab producers. CSI and Arcelor, the world's largest producer, based in Luxembourg, own a combined 46% of CST, which is CSN's biggest local rival. And this week it was announced that Dongkuk, a South Korean steel maker, had agreed with CVRD, Brazil's giant iron-ore miner, and other investors to develop a new slab plant on Brazil's north-east coast.Until it started talking to Corus, CSN, like Gerdau, another Brazilian steel firm, had been heading in the opposite direction, and buying mills in America so it could send its steel to them for finishing. The future of this strategy is not clear, though CSN's American mills could be a route for Corus to increase its tiny market share there. A deal should help CSN to boost its foreign sales, which are still less than 20% of the total. More foreign earnings and the backing of a big foreign shareholder would make investors rate CSN more highly. That would cut its borrowing costs, especially if, as is reported, Corus plans to take some of CSN's debts on to its books. In difficult times like these, such an offer is hard to refuse. 