Steel Price Forecast, May 2017 European Steelmakers Challenging EU ReformsPhotollug/Adobe StockEuropean steelmakers are coming together to fight a common enemy: EU carbon reforms.According to a recent report from Reuters, steelmakers across the continent are writing EU leaders, emphasizing they not burden the industry with what they feel are superfluous carbon emission regulation costs. Such costs, they argue, would put them at a competitive disadvantage with their global peers as well as increase the risk of job cuts and plant closures."You can avoid burdening the sector with high costs that will constrict investment, or that will increase the risk of job losses and plant closures in the EU," the CEOs say in an open letter, obtained by Reuters, dated May 28, to EU heads of state and government.Want a short- and medium-term buying outlook for aluminum, copper, tin, lead, zinc, nickel and several forms of steel? Subscribe to our monthly buying outlook reports!"In its current form, the EU ETS [Emissions Trading System] favors steel imports from third country competitors that do not have such costs and which have a far higher carbon footprint than steel made in the EU," the letter continues.With U.S. and international steel prices widening "to unsustainable levels," according to our own Raul de Frutos, May has seen a drop from this industrial metal and de Frutos warns this could only be the beginning.De Frutos writes: "Hot-rolled prices have fallen around 5% since they peaked in April. Meanwhile, steel prices in China have started to stabilize after a slump during March/April."The price spread appears to have peaked near the same levels as it did last summer," de Frutos continued. "U.S. steel prices will likely continue to fall, bringing this price arbitrage down."How will steel and base metals fare in 2017? You can find a more in-depth copper price forecast and outlook in our brand-new Monthly Metal Buying Outlook report. For a short- and long-term buying strategy with specific price thresholds:Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service