Steel scrapTHE steel industry usually waits until the economy takes a dive before pressing for protection from imports. But this time it is acting sooner. Since last September it has been urging Congress and the administration to "stand up for steel" against a tide of imports from Japan and elsewhere. On March 17th it pulled off its biggest coup yet. Many House Republicans voted with most Democrats for a bill imposing quotas on all foreign steel producers. Such import restrictions would violate world trade rules and invite foreign retaliation against American exports.The bill's huge majority in the House is testimony to the steel lobby's awesome clout. Although the industry employs only 260,000 people, all but seven states produce some steel. And often only a handful of angry constituents is enough to sway a congressman's vote. Yet, only a few months ago, few expected the bill to pass. The decisive factor has been a slick $4m campaign involving rallies in 43 cities and emotive TV and newspaper ads. The message that steelworkers are the first American victims of Asian flu has struck a chord. The industry claims that a surge in imports last year is to blame for plunging profits and some 10,000 lay-offs.Its clamour has drowned out the truth. Independent estimates suggest that only 3,000 jobs have been lost (though, admittedly, with no less pain for the workers concerned) in an economy that created 2.5m net new jobs last year. Despite rising imports, 11 of the top 13 steel companies made profits last year. This year, steel imports from Japan and Russia have all but ceased. But the steel lobby's media blitz remains a warning to congressmen that it has the money to campaign against their re-election in 2000.The administration is receptive, too. Vice-President Al Gore is keen to strengthen his ties with Richard Gephardt, the House minority leader and a champion of the steel industry, who is backing his presidential bid next year. Last year, the administration acted swiftly to speed up the steel industry's anti-dumping cases. These led last month to the imposition of prohibitive duties on Japanese and Brazilian steel; Russia agreed instead to a quota restricting its exports. In January President Clinton offered steel makers a subsidy package that includes $300m of tax breaks. In his state-of-the-union message the president pledged to retaliate "when imports unlawfully flood our nation".The White House will go only so far. It has signalled that it will veto the quota bill rather than breach world trade law. Before then, the bill may fail to muster a majority in the Senate. Yet the steel lobby is unlikely to go away empty-handed. The Senate could amend the bill to make it more palatable to the president. The administration is open to reforming trade-remedy laws to make it easier and quicker for firms to get temporary protection from import surges. It is also offering more cash to workers who lose their jobs. And Mr Clinton may have to make further concessions if he is to secure "fast-track" authority to negotiate big international trade deals any time soon.It is unsettling that, even in an unprecedented peacetime boom, so many Americans are beguiled by protectionism. Yet the administration makes matters worse by failing to confront it head on. It prefers to concede the argument while trying to limit protectionist excesses. That only encourages the steel lobby, among others, to demand further concessions. 