SteelLittle love lost"THIS is a marriage of reason," said Joseph Kinsch, chairman of Arcelor, when he presented the proposed merger of the Luxembourg-based steelmaker and Mittal Steel to the press on June 26th. It was certainly not love at first sight. For almost five months Mr Kinsch and Guy Dolle, the company's chief executive, used every defence they could to rebuff Mittal's hostile bid. They mobilised politicians, bankers, public-relations advisors and--in what was meant to be the fatal blow to Mittal's bid--a white knight in the guise of Severstal, a Russian steelmaker. But clarity came after a nine-hour meeting on June 25th when Arcelor's board at last agreed to sell the company to Mittal Steel for cash and stock valued at EUR25.6 billion ($32.2 billion). APKinsch stops monkeying with MittalThe merger will create by far the world's largest steelmaker in terms of market value, revenue and output. It is good news for Arcelor, for Mittal--and the whole steel industry. The two companies complement each other in geography and the types of steel they produce. Their union is likely to inspire more mergers and takeovers that will increase the industry's efficiency. One banker in the deal says all steelmakers are now asking themselves what they should do next.Because about half of the global steel market is still parochial and fragmented, size brings many advantages. Big companies have more power to negotiate with suppliers and are better able to withstand the industry's cycle. They can exploit synergies in purchasing, and in manufacturing as well as in marketing and trading. Some small producers with a focus on a niche in the market, such as Sweden's SSAB, a company specialising in high-strength steel, are very profitable. But small steelmakers without their own technological edge are unlikely to survive. Further consolidation is likely to make the industry healthier. After a painful crisis it has returned to profitability thanks to robust economic growth. In Europe consolidation came to a halt after three big mergers at the end of the last decade. Thyssen and Krupp of Germany joined forces in 1997. Two years later British Steel and Hoogovens of the Netherlands formed Corus. And in 2001 Arcelor was born after Usinor of France merged with Luxembourg's Arbed and Aceralia of Spain. Corus is considered a takeover target while ThyssenKrupp is determined to stay independent--at least for the moment. Hence most of the mergers will probably be in emerging economies. For instance, although China accounts today for one-third of global demand, Baosteel, its biggest producer, is much smaller than Arcelor.Lakshmi Mittal, the boss of Mittal Steel, believes that ultimately the industry is likely to be dominated by a handful of producers of more than 100m tonnes a year. His proposed behemoth, at any rate, will produce some 120m tonnes a year. But the deal is not quite done yet. First, on June 30th, at least half Arcelor's shareholders must vote against the proposed merger with Severstal to stop it. That seems likely. Mr Mittal's bid is now 49% higher than it was in January. He has made further concessions to get Arcelor's bosses to concede defeat, contenting himself with a 43.6% stake in the new company. He gave Arcelor four of the seven seats on the management board. Mr Kinsch will be chairman of Arcelor Mittal, as the company will be called, and a bitterly disappointed Mr Dolle will depart.Several shareholders, including Romain Zaleski, Arcelor's biggest, with a 7.8% stake, have decided to vote against a merger with Severstal. Even if the Russian deal is approved, Mr Mittal can still scupper it, by buying 73% of Arcelor shares through his own tender offer before it expires in July. Again, Mr Zaleski has promised his backing.Mr Kinsch, for one, seems resigned to the merger going ahead. He said that he hopes that it will eventually become a marriage of hearts. He also denied any regret for the insults he and his lieutenants hurled at the Indian-born entrepreneur's company and culture, including a dismissal of Mittal shares as "monkey money". Such behaviour was forgotten, he declared, as soon as everyone sat down together at the same table. That sentiment would have sounded more convincing coming from Mr Mittal.