Still aglisterGold prices remain at historically high levels, with the commodity trading at well above US$900/oz* in mid-February. The global financial crisis should be good for gold's prospects in 2009. Safe-haven appeal, very low interest rates and policymakers' efforts to inject liquidity into the global financial system will all be bullish factors for gold, overriding the otherwise dampening effect on prices of rising excess supply. The Economist Intelligence Unit forecasts an average price of US$888/oz this year, up from US$872/oz in 2008.Gold prices have not quite regained the record highs they attained in March last year, when spot prices exceeded US$1,000/oz. But those highs were driven by, among other things, inflation fears (gold is often considered a hedge against inflation) and the weakness of the US dollar against major currencies--both factors have receded since the financial crisis intensified. As the US dollar strengthened in the second half of 2008, gold prices softened, hitting lows of around US$713/oz in October and November. The financial-market turmoil also forced investors to sell some of their gold holdings in a bid to cover losses in other segments of their portfolios.But safe-haven factors similar to those that have boosted demand for US Treasuries in the past few months have quickly led to a rebound in gold prices. Seasonal increases in demand also tend to support prices at the end of the calendar year and in the first quarter. At US$943/oz on February 12th, the price of gold is now 32% above its November low.We expect the value of gold to continue to hold up well in 2009 and 2010 against the backdrop of global market turmoil and the directionless behaviour of other commodities. Not only will gold continue to benefit from investor uncertainty, but the ultra-low interest rates now in effect in many countries will indirectly support gold prices by making the returns on other investments less attractive. However, gold prices will be volatile.The role of the global crisis in supporting the price of gold is perhaps most evident in the fact that the commodity's recent performance runs against fundamentals of supply and demand. Excess supply increased by 66% to 457 tonnes last year, while the annual average price rose by 25% during the same period. One of the reasons for the rise in oversupply is that consumption of gold for jewellery--normally a mainstay of the market--was weak. This reflects the impact of the economic downturn on consumer spending on luxury items. According to GFMS, a London-based precious-metals consultancy, in 2008 jewellery fabrication fell by 262 tonnes, or 11%, to its lowest level since 1989. High gold prices are also hurting jewellery demand.We expect a similar dynamic to be in effect in 2009. Our forecast envisages total consumption of gold falling by 6.5% to 2,771 tonnes. All of this decline will occur in "fabrication" (which includes jewellery, and industrial and dental uses), where demand will fall by 9% to 2,344 tonnes. In line with the market factors outlined above, however, the much smaller investment component of demand will rise by 10% to 427 tonnes. Supply will also contract this year, largely as a result of rising production costs and the effects of bottlenecks in 2008, when producers encountered power shortages and technical problems, went into administration, or could not get credit to finance mine expansion. The difficulty in obtaining credit will persist this year. Despite this, world gold supply will contract more slowly than demand, causing excess supply to rise by 21% to 553 tonnes. Only the worldwide flight to safety and the lack of appeal of other assets, it seems, will keep gold prices high.That said, we do not expect prices to continue to rise much, if at all, beyond their current levels. The large increases seen in the past two years--during which the average annual price rose by 44%, or by US$268/oz--will not be repeated. Our forecast is for the annual average price of gold in 2009 to rise by 1.8% compared with 2008, and to fall by 6.8% to US$828/oz in 2010 as investors begin to consider other asset classes once again.Limited riskA possible risk to our bullish outlook for gold prices is if deflationary pressures and deleveraging cause the US dollar to continue to appreciate substantially. However, this is not our core forecast. We expect the US currency to average US$1.35:EUR1 in 2009 and US$1.39:EUR1 in 2010. Moreover, as monetary authorities continue aggressively creating money in an effort to kickstart economic growth, market expectations of inflation should be supportive of gold prices--even if such expectations are not fulfilled.* All gold prices quoted in this article are LBMA London PM Fixing.