Tata SteelPort Talbot’s steelworkers are proud but fearfulPORT TALBOT, on the south Welsh coast, has only one purpose in life--to house those who work in, or are dependent on, the local steelworks. The plant's two giant blast furnaces are clearly visible from anywhere in the town, a constant reminder of the umbilical link between the two and of the long history of steelmaking here. At its peak in the 1960s and 1970s, as many as 18,000 people worked at the Port Talbot plant. After decades of decline, symptomatic of the country's more general deindustrialisation, that figure is now down to just 4,000 or so. Even so, it remains Britain's biggest steelworks, and the population of Port Talbot is probably still a relatively buoyant 37,000 or so.Now, however, the future of Port Talbot works and the town are under threat as never before. Tata Steel, the India-based owner of the plant, is selling all its British steelmaking facilities. If Tata cannot find a buyer for Port Talbot, and the plant were to close completely, that would undoubtedly wreak havoc in this working-class town straddling the river Afan. Not only would the well-paid steel jobs go, but many of the businesses dependent on those jobs too. Astra cars, for instance, the biggest taxi company in town, employs about 30 people. One of its drivers says that if the plant closes, this figure would shrivel to around four.It's a desperate situation, even to those inured to watching the slow retreat of the steelworks since the days when it was Europe's largest. Families have worked here, or in the local steel industry generally, for generations, and for some that is all they know. Christian Reed, for example, has worked as a project manager at the plant for 11 years. His father worked in the industry for 40 years before retiring in 2008, and his mother's father was a foundry worker. "Steel and engineering is all we have ever been," says Mr Reed. "We are proud of working there. It's very difficult to contemplate losing the plant. It would be like losing a member of the family."Strikingly, there is little antipathy towards Tata, which bought the plant from Corus in 2007, and is said to be losing PS1m a day on it. Instead there is a widespread appreciation of the PS300m or so that Tata has spent on modernising the plant, including the building of Britain's most modern blast furnace. "We have no beef with Tata," says one union official. "They have invested all the money in the plant and had no return." Another man says: "All credit to Tata. They had lots of people trying to streamline and modernise the plant. The Tata guys have worked overtime to make it more efficient and try to make it work, but it just hasn't worked."Rather than blaming Tata, most of the workers and local people blame Chinese "dumping" and high energy costs for their plight. People accept the need for some green tariff on energy and particularly in Port Talbot, thought to be the most polluted place in Wales. But now they need some relief.Very few are in favour of temporary, or even outright, nationalisation, as Jeremy Corbyn, the Labour leader, has urged. They have seen all that before. Rather, they accept that what is needed now is a solid business case for survival, with the government stepping in to ease the costs for a new buyer. "We want Tata to be a responsible seller," says Mr Reed. "We just want to be given a level playing field."There is much speculation about whether Sanjeev Gupta's Liberty House company will buy the works, as has been suggested, and whether he will put in new electric-arc furnaces that would produce steel from scrap. If that does happen, it would be the end of integrated steelmaking at Port Talbot, and most locals accept that there would still be job losses. Many steps in the current Basic Oxygen Steel (BOS) production process simply wouldn't be needed any more.So the younger workers at the plant, certainly, are already looking around for new opportunities, and possibly new industries. By British standards, Port Talbot has a highly skilled workforce and there is a hope that some of those laid off from Port Talbot might get new jobs on big new infrastructure projects such as HS2, the new London to Birmingham railway, or Crossrail, or on offshore wind farms. This would mean moving out of the area, of course, and could hollow out Port Talbot town. Whatever happens, Port Talbot will never be the same again. 