The crowded aluminium businessHard metalON THE face of things, the aluminium business is recovering swiftly from a nasty tumble. In 2009 the parlous state of the global economy pushed spot prices for the metal down below $1,500 a tonne. In recent weeks they have risen above $2,200--a 14-month high. Demand is picking up, particularly in India and China. Chinalco, China's biggest aluminium-maker, which had idled 10% of its capacity, said in December that it would restart it all. Yet according to Michael Widmer of Bank of America Merrill Lynch, an investment bank, aluminium still has "horrible fundamentals"--in part because outfits like Chinalco continue to open smelters.Those who consider the industry's recovery superficial point to the 4.5m tonnes of aluminium stashed in warehouses around the world, far above the typical level of around 1m tonnes. Even when the price was near its lows last year, the futures market was anticipating a rebound this year. So speculators could buy stocks on the cheap, sell futures contracts at higher prices, and simply store the metal until the contracts fell due. Much of that metal will come back into circulation in the coming months.Demand, of course, should also rise. This year China, the world's biggest consumer, will probably get through some 14m tonnes. Rio Tinto, a mining giant, forecasts that China's consumption will more than double to 31.5m tonnes by 2020. But the rest of the world's aluminium producers are hardly rubbing their hands with glee. The country has huge unused production capacity of around 7m tonnes a year. Although the government wants to close less efficient smelters to save energy, local officials, keen to preserve growth and jobs, are slow to follow its edicts. In principle, Chinese smelters are supposed to pay a market rate for the power they consume, which can account for as much as 40% of costs. But they still benefit from cheap land, labour and loans, and often from "captive" power plants fuelled by abundant local coal. Analysts reckon that China, which unusually imported large quantities of aluminium last year, will again produce a small surplus in 2010.Overcapacity is not restricted to China. On December 1st smelting started at a plant in Abu Dhabi that, when completed, will be the world's biggest. Other Gulf states, which are also keen to diversify their oil-based economies, and tend to enjoy cheap electricity generated from local reserves of natural gas, are also building smelters. Last month Alcoa of America, one of the world's biggest aluminium-makers, announced a joint venture with Maaden, a Saudi Arabian mining firm, to build what they claim will be the world's lowest-cost smelter (presumably thanks to favourable power deals from the government). Qatar and Oman also have plans for big new projects. Dubai and Bahrain already have big smelters. By 2020 the Middle East will account for 12% of global capacity, reckons the Gulf Aluminium Council, an industry body.Meanwhile, outside China and a few other developing countries, demand for aluminium is projected to grow only slowly. The upshot is that high-cost Western aluminium producers are in trouble as more low-cost capacity comes on stream. Rio Tinto recently closed Anglesey Aluminium in Britain after its power contract expired. Many other European smelters could close because they are unable to strike cut-price new deals for electricity as older contracts run out. The European Aluminium Association fears that two-thirds of the continent's smelters are under threat. High electricity prices are also likely to put a stop to new aluminium projects in South Africa. Outside China, at any rate, a producer smelts or sinks according to its position on aluminium's cost curve. 