The coming daysThe week aheadAP/AFP/AFP* THE bearded British billionaire, Richard Branson, who has dabbled in the music industry, airlines, trains and more, has said that his Virgin group will bid, on Monday February 4th, for the troubled British mortgage lender, Northern Rock. Mr Branson is optimistic that the bank could yet become "very strong". The British government--and the taxpayers who have seen PS25 billion ($50 billion) go to support the bank after it made reckless loans and was unable to raise funds itself--merely hopes to get the bank on its feet again.For background, see article* The electorates in more than 20 states will have their say in America's presidential nominating process on Tuesday February 5th. Super Tuesday is now so big it is considered to be a sort of national primary election, which may seal the nomination for a candidate in either party. The states with the most delegates up for grabs are California, Illinois, New Jersey and New York. Other interesting results will come from states with proportionally large black electorates (Alabama, Georgia and Tennessee) and many conservative voters (ditto, plus Utah).For background, see article* BHP Billiton, a huge Anglo-Australian mining company, faces a deadline of Wednesday February 3rd set by British regulators to make a formal offer for Rio Tinto, another mining titan. Rio has so far resisted the all-share offer, valued at $140 billion when BHP first made its approach in November. BHP's plans were thrown into dissarray at the end of last week, however, after Chinalco, an aluminium firm backed by the Chinese government, took a 9% stake in Rio, with some assistance from Alcoa, an American aluminium-maker. Meanwhile Vale, a Brazilian mining giant, is rumoured to be mulling an offer for Xstrata, a smaller Anglo-Swiss miner. Anglo American, another vast mining firm, is said to be eyeing Xstrata too.For background, see article* BALKAN watchers expect Kosovo, at last, to declare independence at some time this week. With the presidential election in Serbia out of the way, the leaders of the mostly Albanian breakaway province are expected to make a unilateral declaration that is likely to have the support, at least tacit, of many Western countries. How Serbia reacts, and then its ally Russia, is the big next question.For background, see articleTo listen to a discussion of the news in the coming week click here