THE DIAMOND BUSINESSGlass with attitudeTHE entrance to the local office of De Beers, the world's diamond barons, in the Angolan capital of Luanda is hidden in an unmarked shady passage off a foul-smelling street. Outside, litter clogs the gutters and battered, low-slung cars honk their horns at hawkers of peanuts, pineapples and bright plastic rucksacks. Inside the passage, the lift broke down long ago. To reach the office you must climb seven dark flights of narrow steps, which stink of stale urine.And then, upstairs, a bright new world unfurls. Behind thick steel doors, and watched by security cameras, is harmony in black leather and chrome. A receptionist speaks through bullet-proof glass via a telephone system. She accepts business cards through an electronically operated slot in the counter. At the touch of a button, she unlocks what looks like a decompression cell to admit the visitor to the waiting room, a chamber which is also overlooked by video cameras.From the hermetically sealed calm of this office, the men from De Beers are on a mission to impose order on the chaos of the Angolan diamond fields. So far, they have had to keep running just to stay still. In the diamond valleys of the remote north-east, UNITA guerrillas still control many of the richest diamond deposits. There, garimpeiros (illegal diamond diggers) and army officers, buccaneers and foreign fortune-hunters compete for a patch, scraping at the ground with tin cans and fingernails, or plunging underwater from wooden canoes to dig out the gems from the gravel beds of the Cuango river.It is a modern-day vision of the 1870s diamond rush at Kimberley, South Africa. There are no rules. Guns are rife, and for hire. Murders, ambushes and kidnappings are common. "It's like the Wild West," says one buyer. Last year, De Beers spent some $15m each week mopping up Angolan diamonds, mostly in Antwerp, no questions asked. Recently, De Beers's man in Luanda was shot and wounded by armed robbers while driving in the diamond area with a huge stack of cash.Far from the mayhem in Africa, on the other side of the world, a helicopter lands on the roof of a building in Charterhouse Street, on the edge of the City of London. It ejects a man in a suit, Nicky Oppenheimer, soon to be chairman of the De Beers empire that his grandfather, Sir Ernest, built into an international company and a global cartel. From the roof he descends to his hushed, wood-panelled offices, to preside over an operation of which the Soviets would have been proud.Every five weeks, his men meet in this building to sell to diamond brokers the precious stones that De Beers has gathered from the world's diamond mines. Here the visitor finds no free-for-all scramble. This is an exquisitely controlled, polite operation. Each broker has already placed his orders for the stones on behalf of his clients, the cutters and polishers. The men from De Beers meet for an entire day to discuss who should get what.Not to discuss the price: this they have already fixed, based on their reading of the market "and on our intelligence". This time, the decision is about which stones to give out--big ones, small ones, clear ones, pink ones--and in what combination. The result is parcelled up secretly into little brown boxes, sealed with tape, and handed out to the brokers when they fly into London. A broker inspects his box, and can reject it altogether; but he cannot start quibbling about the selection he has got.Welcome to the mad world of De Beers, where James Bond meets the Wild West and manages to turn the raw, lawless frontier world of diamond digging and dealing into the most smoothly manipulated business in the world--"all", as Lord Randolph Churchill famously observed when he visited the South African diamond mines in the 1890s, "for the vanity of woman" (and, today, of man). It is not merely gems that De Beers is selling, but symbols, myths, magic. As a worldwide dealer in enchanting illusions, Disney has nothing on De Beers: for the preciousness of the diamond is not a fact but a triumph of modern marketing.The allure of diamonds rests on one illusion above all: that "a diamond is forever". That clever marketing slogan, first invented in 1947 by De Beers's American advertising men and still used today, sells two dreams in one: that diamonds bring eternal love and romance, and that diamonds never lose their value.Like magic, the dream has come true. Unlike such other precious commodities as gold, whose price has yo-yoed over the years, the average price of diamonds has maintained a relentless upward creep. Between 1986 and 1996, average prices of diamonds grew by 50%. Again like magic, this took place despite the fact that over the same period more and more diamonds flowed onto the market. How?The answer lies in the little brown boxes handed out in Charterhouse Street. Through such allocations, De Beers controls the supply of about three-quarters of the world's rough (uncut) diamonds via its marketing arm, the Central Selling Organisation (CSO). It mines half the world's diamonds itself, in South Africa, Namibia and Botswana. The rest it sucks into its system through contracts made with other diamond producers, and by dispatching its buyers, whose clipped British accents and pressed cotton shirts mark them out as the sort who might otherwise be employed by Her Majesty's secret service, to vacuum up diamonds that seep onto the market in such places as Angola and Congo-Kinshasa.The system today works in much the same way as it did when Cecil Rhodes first hatched his plans for a diamond empire a century ago. He observed that, uncontrolled, the industry dug out too many diamonds, flooded the market and prompted a collapse in prices. Apart from low-quality industrial diamonds, the stones had no practical use that would help prop up their price.The answer was to support prices artificially by seizing control of all the mines. In 1888 Rhodes founded De Beers Consolidated Mines, merging two of the biggest mines in South Africa (De Beers and Kimberley). From there, he went on buying up the country's diamond mines until he controlled 90% of the world's gemstones, most of them extracted by pitifully paid African workers under fierce surveillance. From that point, market control derived from a monopolist's rule-book: when times are bad, hold back diamonds to support the price; when times are good, release the gems and clean up.More or less the same principle, institutionalised by Sir Ernest Oppenheimer, who set up the CSO in 1934, is followed today. De Beers varies its stocks of diamonds, and forces its partners to hold theirs back too, depending on market conditions. In 1977, for instance, a boom year, it held just $253m of the stones. By June this year, however, a turbulent time for the industry, the diamond stocks stashed away in the De Beers safes were worth a staggering $4.1 billion--a treasure trove made possible by the company's financial strength.Such manipulation of the market--De Beers prefers to call it "management" or "stabilisation"--does not mean that no diamonds are genuinely scarce. "Fancies", or unusually coloured diamonds, in such shades as pink or purple, can be extremely rare and fetch huge prices. Small, plain diamonds, however, are in fact not all that scarce. Their reputation for rarity comes in no small part from man, not nature.Anybody who doubts that the diamond cartel has sustained a remarkable illusion need look no farther than the recent troubles at the bottom end of the market. Argyle mine, Australia's diamond producer, used to sell its stones via the CSO. It digs out more diamonds than anybody else in the world, but the quality of its stones is poor. By value, it turns out just 5% of the world's total. In July 1996, grumbling that the CSO was not giving it a fair deal, Argyle quit. Since then, and also thanks to the continued leakage of low-quality Russian diamonds, the price of low-quality diamonds has done the unthinkable and collapsed. One Antwerp dealer says that, on the open market, the price of such gemstones has plunged to just over a third of what they fetched before the Australians pulled out.De Beers argues that these troubles vindicate the work of the cartel, or the "single-channel marketing" system, as the company prefers to call it. "My belief", says Nicky Oppenheimer, "is that if the Australians had signed a contract with us, the fall in prices that one has seen at the lower end would not have taken place." A cautionary tale: quit, and suffer the muscle of De Beers. Stay, and the fantastic illusion is sustained.De Beers's executives, naturally, deny that there is an illusion at all. "I don't think it is a bubble that can be burst," declares Mr Oppenheimer. But they rely on curiously circular logic. De Beers insists that it does not keep diamond prices artificially high. Diamonds, goes the argument, are special: they have a mystique tracing back to times of Indian maharajas and Arabian princes; they are the hardest substance on earth; and "they simply sparkle more". In which case, why do diamonds need De Beers and the CSO? Ah, comes the reply, we need to maintain price stability in order to support the mystique.At the end of the day, this is no longer a matter of logic but of faith. Spending any length of time with De Beers managers can feel like a visit to a religious sect. Nobody questions their conviction. Only true believers remain in the temple of the faithful. One former De Beers man recalls a video shown in the 1980s as part of his initiation into the firm; at the end, six words of baptism appeared on the screen: "Now you are one of us." The company's executives exude a missionary zeal. They even speak inadvertently in evangelical terms. "We have the fervour of the converted," jokes Mr Oppenheimer.However ingenious the men from De Beers, their grand scheme would come to nothing were it not for the depths of human folly. Ruling the diamond empire requires not only control of the supply of diamonds to the market, but clever manipulation of desire too. In this respect, the diamond people have proved to be among the greatest salesmen of the century.The supposedly precious nature of diamonds, and their association with romance and Hollywood, with James Bond and Elizabeth Taylor, have such a hold on the modern imagination that it is sometimes easy to forget how much of the glamour was the product of a professionally designed marketing campaign. For it, Harry Oppenheimer, father of Nicky and son of Sir Ernest, can take most of the credit.By the end of the 19th century, a time when the discovery of diamonds in South Africa led to a glut, diamonds were already changing from exclusive trophies for royalty into more accessible ornaments for the burgeoning nouveaux riches, especially in America. It was not until the end of the Depression years, however, that the diamond king concocted his scheme to sell the gems more widely.His idea was to turn diamonds into an essential middle-class accessory, a statement of aspiration to luxury, yet within the reach of bourgeois pockets. To do this, he concentrated on fixing in the public imagination the instant association of diamonds with romantic rites of passage: engagements, weddings, anniversaries. In 1939, he launched the first American advertising campaign. By 1941, the sales of diamonds in the United States had jumped by 55%.The De Beers marketing people have never let up. Today, the United States still accounts for more than a third of world diamond jewellery sales. But now the company spends no less than $200m a year on marketing diamonds in 34 countries around the globe. It sells the dream to every new generation of impressionable young women and men. De Beers maintains an army of marketing people to keep the dream alive, sponsoring women's magazines, hosting celebrity auctions and design competitions, and planting diamonds on television.One recent coup was to persuade "Baywatch" to devote an entire episode to a story about the purchase of a diamond engagement ring. Naturally, De Beers did not miss the chance to drive home the crude message that a man really should spend two months' salary on his fiancee's rock.Creating such traditions has become something of a speciality. To reinvent the dream for those who have already bought it once, De Beers revived the languishing American custom of the "eternity ring": a band of diamonds bought to celebrate the tenth wedding anniversary. The slogan they came up with: "Show her you would marry her all over again." Since this tradition's reinvention in 1988, the share of women wearing a diamond anniversary band has jumped more than fourfold, to more than one in ten.Finally, De Beers aggressively sells the dream to the uninitiated. The best example is Japan. In the 1960s, before De Beers muscled in, barely one in 20 Japanese brides wore a diamond engagement ring. The company then advertised the diamond ring as combining the modern western look with an embodiment of purity that fits the Shinto aesthetic. Today, diamond engagement rings are sported by some 70% of Japanese brides, helping to make Japan the second-biggest diamond-jewellery market after America.Nevertheless, for as long as the CSO has existed, outsiders have been predicting its demise. One day, they say, whatever the conviction of Mr Oppenheimer and his missionaries, the bubble must burst, and the fanciful hallucination will come to a sober end. Will the diamond then become common?Certainly, these are turbulent times for the diamond barons. Thanks to their economic troubles, the hard-up Japanese, who currently buy a hefty quarter of the world's diamond jewellery, are buying fewer diamonds than they used to. Sales in Japan could fall by a fifth in 1997 compared with last year. Other Asians, who buy about 18% of the total, will probably also hold back. Already, Japan's sluggish market pushed down the world's total diamond-jewellery sales to $52 billion in 1996, a bit below the level of 1995. However cunning the De Beers marketing people may be, they are peddling--indeed have in part created--a luxury good that gets struck from the shopping list when times are tough.Their grip on supply, moreover, is not altogether watertight. The cartel will continue to work only if most producers belong to it, and if most do not cheat. Thanks to a recent deal, the Russians are now back on board, bringing an end to nearly a year during which De Beers, accusing Russia of leaking diamonds, refused to buy their stones at all. But the deal also allows the Russians to sell more of their diamonds on the open market than before. Millions of dollars' worth of diamonds are still leaking out of Angola. The Australians are now outside the cartel. And, starting next year, Canada will be digging diamonds too. It expects to produce about $300m-400m a year at first, or the same amount (by value) as Australia. There is no guarantee that Canada will sell through De Beers.Should all these rebels desert the fold, the difficulty for De Beers will be less its ability to control prices--it will still extract at least half the world's diamonds from its African mines, which ooze with the stones--than to justify its costly marketing effort. Why should De Beers spend all that money if diamond producers outside the cartel also benefit at no cost to themselves? Already, De Beers has made thinly veiled threats that, should the rebels continue to ride for free, the company would have to rethink the way it advertises diamonds altogether. Branding its own diamonds--"the De Beers diamond ring", say--would be one option.But do not underestimate the diamond kings of Kimberley. They have withstood turbulence before, not least in South Africa this century, from the Boer war to anti-apartheid sanctions. Each time their downfall has been predicted, the masters of control have emerged as strong as ever. Few competitors have picked a fight with the mighty De Beers and won. The company has even managed to slip out of reach of the American trust-busters. Cartels are illegal in America. But, thanks partly to a cleverly disguised international maze of company registrations, and to diamond dealers' frightened reluctance to testify, the Americans have never successfully pursued a serious antitrust case against De Beers. The threat is enough to keep the company, and its barons, out of that country; but it is not enough to dent their global empire.Vanity, greed, envy, desire, even love: the diamond barons could scarcely appeal to more common human instincts. In whose interest, they repeatedly ask, would it be to destroy the magic? Surely not the jeweller's, the cutter's, the dealer's, or the miner's. Above all, does not the bride-to-be want the immortal and the incomparable to shine in her ring? The diamond myth lives in a world a bit outside of logic, outside of ordinary economics: a world where there are still a few talismanic substances whose magic rubs off on the bearer. Thus do the sorcerers of Charterhouse Street concoct glamour from carbon, and fool us all. 