The quest for metalsTHE directors of America's Phelps Dodge, a mining and metals group, must be wondering where they went wrong. In June, they unveiled plans for a three-way merger worth around $40 billion with Inco and Falconbridge, two Canadian mining firms. The aim: to create the world's biggest producer of nickel and a force to be reckoned with in copper and other metals too. Now Phelps Dodge will have to think again. Not only has Xstrata, a British-based mining group, seized control of Falconbridge (creating the world's fifth-largest diversified mining and metals giant once the deal is completed); but Phelps Dodge's prospects of winning Inco have also dimmed. On Wednesday August 16th, Teck Cominco, another mining firm from Canada which had sought to get control of Inco, said it would pull out of the race as it could not finance a high enough offer. As things stand, this leaves Brazil's Companhia Vale do Rio Doce (CVRD), the world's leading producer of iron ore, as the favourite. Although CVRD's offer of $17.6 billion for Inco is close to the value of Phelps Dodge's own bid, the Brazilian company is offering all of it in cash. Investors in mineral and mining shares have shown a preference for cash of late, which was one reason why Xstrata succeeded in its bid for Falconbridge. To make matters worse for Phelps Dodge, many of its own shareholders have signalled their opposition to a deal with Inco; some even say they would prefer Phelps Dodge to put itself up for sale. Whatever happens to Inco, it is clear that by the end of the year a swathe of the world's mineral and mining resources is likely to be in different hands. Though it has yet to complete the PS9 billion ($17.1 billion) acquisition of Falconbridge, Xstrata is already talking about more such deals. This week Mick Davis, Xstrata's chief executive, told the Financial Times: "The other things we had in mind, we still want to do. Having done Falconbridge, it makes some of these deals more compelling."One reason for the recent spate of mergers among producers is the high prices of base metals. Demand from fast-growing economies like China has pushed the prices of most metals to repeated peaks. The price of nickel rose so fast on Wednesday, touching a record of $29,200, that the London Metal Exchange, the world's biggest market for base metals, decided to intervene in order to head off the risk of defaults by speculators. Many had expected the price of nickel to fall, so forcing them to cover their short positions by buying more. With most base metals in short supply and mining firms flush with cash because of the high prices paid for their wares, more deals are likely. Canadian investors are already talking about another round of mergers among the second-line producers now that Falconbridge and Inco are changing hands. True, mining companies could extract even more metal from the ground. But, as with the quest for oil, growing organically is expensive at the moment. As firms boost their output to take advantage of sky-high prices, most inputs--from skilled engineers to specialist drills and trucks--are in short supply. Acquiring resources through the stockmarket is also quicker than starting a new mine. Managers worry, too, that mines they open when prices are high could become uneconomic when prices fall again. The high costs of metals and minerals are also encouraging people to look for cheaper alternatives or to do away with them altogether. So much so that Jim Kolbe, a Republican Congressman, recently tabled legislation in America to withdraw the penny from circulation. Mr Kolbe wants to round all transactions up or down to the nearest nickel, or five cents. The cost of producing a penny is now 1.4 cents according to the United States Mint. Withdrawing the coin could save the American taxpayer nearly $900m a year.