This Morning in Metals China Iron Ore Futures Risenikitos77/Adobe StockThis morning in metals news, China iron ore futures were up Monday, the chief executive of Japan's LIXIL Group expressed concern about aluminum price volatility, and a new study measures the economic effect of a potential U.S. withdrawal from the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA).Need buying strategies for steel? Try two free months of MetalMiner's OutlookChinese iron ore futures were up Monday, Reuters reported, on the second day that contracts have been open to foreign investors.According to Reuters, the most-traded September iron ore contract rose 0.2% to $73.86 per ton.The U.S. has made waves in the metals markets in recent months with the Section 232 tariff measures, and Japan's LIXIL Group is among the firms concerned about the trade moves' impact on prices (particularly aluminum). In addition, U.S. sanctions against Russian individuals and companies had seen aluminum prices rise sharply last month.According to Reuters, LIXIL CEO Kinya Seto said the company isn't concerned about the impact of sanctions on Russian aluminum giant Rusal, but that LIXIL is still worried about volatility in aluminum prices.According to a study by A.T. Kearney, the near-term cost to American retailers of a withdrawal from NAFTA is estimated at $15.8 billion.MetalMiner's Annual Outlook provides 2018 buying strategies for carbon steelNAFTA, the trilateral trade deal in place since 1994, has been the subject of renegotiation talks dating back to last fall. Last week, U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer indicated he hoped to reach a deal with Canada and Mexico this month.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service