This Morning in Metals Steel Capacity Utilization Rate Falls to 80.3%gui yong nian/Adobe StockThis morning in metals news, the U.S. steel sector's capacity utilization rate inched down another tenth of a percentage point, the U.S. raised its steel tariffs on Turkey to 50% and Chinese iron ore futures fell Tuesday.Keep up to date on everything going on in the world of trade and tariffs via MetalMiner's Trade Resource Center.The U.S. steel sector's capacity utilization rate for the year through Oct. 12 reached 80.3%, down from 80.4% the previous week.Steel production for the year through Oct. 12 reached 76.1 million tons, up 2.9% on a year-over-year basis.In yet another turn in U.S.-Turkey relations, President Donald Trump signed an executive order halting trade negotiations with Turkey and raising the tariff on Turkish steel imports to 50%.Last year, the Trump administration raised its Section 232 steel tariff on Turkish steel to 50% amid a row over Turkey's detention of American pastor Andrew Brunson; the U.S. eventually brought the tariff back down to the standard 25% rate.However, after the U.S. announced a withdrawal of its forces from Syria, followed by Turkey's military offensive in the region, Trump released a statement announcing the U.S. would sanction Turkish government officials and "any persons contributing to Turkey's destabilizing actions in northeast Syria."Chinese iron ore futures dropped to an over two-week low amid Brazilian miner Vale's announcement of elevated third-quarter production, Reuters reported.Looking for metal price forecasting and data analysis in one easy-to-use platform? Inquire about MetalMiner Insights today!The most-traded iron ore contract on the Dalian Commodity Exchange fell 1.2% on Tuesday, down to 644 yuan ($91.05) per ton, according to the report.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service