This Morning in Metals Commerce Delays Ruling on China’s Market Economy StatusThe U.S. Department of Commerce. qingwa/Adobe StockThis morning in metals news, the U.S. Department of Commerce has delayed ruling on whether or not to consider China a market economy, the Commerce Department also deferred a preliminary ruling on Chinese aluminum foil, and also issued a preliminary determination in an antidumping duty investigation of silicon from Australia, Brazil and Norway.Benchmark Your Current Metal Price by Grade, Shape and Alloy: See How it Stacks UpChina officially became a member of the World Trade Organization in 2001, but its status as a market economy is still something of debate around the world.In that vein, the U.S. Department of Commerce has elected to delay a ruling on whether to treat China as a market economy until after President Donald Trump's upcoming trip to China, Bloomberg reported Thursday."In all cases, the Department conducts a full and fair assessment of the facts," Secretary of Commerce Wilbur Ross said Thursday, as quoted by Bloomberg. "This extension will ensure that the highest standards are followed in this case as we seek to guarantee fair treatment for U.S. workers and businesses."Trump will travel to Asia from Nov. 3-14, making stops in Japan, South Korea, China, Vietnam and the Philippines.For more information on China's market economy status, make sure to visit our microsite on the issue.In addition to the aforementioned, the Commerce Department announced it would defer a preliminary ruling in its antidumping investigation of aluminum foil imports from China."The deferral will allow the Commerce Department to fully analyze information pertaining to China's status as a non-market economy (NME) country, which is being contemplated within the context of this AD investigation," according to a Commerce Department release Thursday.The Commerce Department announced it intends to issue a ruling on both China's market economy status and Chinese aluminum foil imports no later than Nov. 30.The Commerce Department did, however, act in its investigation of silicon imports from a trio of countries.On Thursday, Commerce issued an affirmative preliminary determination in its antidumping investigation of silicon imports from Australia, Brazil and Norway.According to the Commerce Department announcement, exporters from Australia, Brazil, and Norway have sold the metal at rates ranging from 20.79%, 56.78% to 134.92%, and 3.74%, respectively, at less than fair value.According to the Commerce Department, imports of silicon metal last year from Australia, Brazil, and Norway were valued at an estimated $33.9 million, $60.0 million, and $21.6 million, respectively.The petitioner in the case is Globe Specialty Metals, Inc., which has production facilities in Alabama, New York, Ohio and West Virginia.Free Sample Report: Our Annual Metal Buying OutlookA final determination in the case is scheduled to be announced Feb. 16.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service