This Morning in Metals U.S. Steel Mills Hit 80.6% Capacity Utilization RatePavel Ignatov/Adobe StockThis morning in metals news, U.S. steel mills produced at a capacity utilization rate of 80.6% for the year through Feb. 9, U.S. steel mill shipments rose 4.8% in 2018 on a year-over-year basis and a Peruvian plant used to produce copper will be partially suspended for the next 3-5 days.Need buying strategies for steel? Request your two-month free trial of MetalMiner's OutlookU.S. raw steel production for the year through Feb. 9 reached 10.9 million tons, according to the American Iron and Steel Institute (AISI), up 9.3% from the 9.9 million tons produced during the same period in 2018.For the aforementioned period this year, U.S. steel mills produced at a capacity utilization rate of 80.6%, up from 75.7% for the same period in 2018.For the week ending Feb. 9, production hit 1.9 million tons at a capacity utilization rate of 81.5%.According to another AISI report, U.S. steel mills in December shipped 7.8 million net tons, marking a 0.8% increase from the previous month and a 6.5% increase year over year.Shipments for the full year hit 95.3 million net tons, up 4.8% compared with 2017 shipments.For more efficient carbon steel buying strategies, take a free trial of MetalMiner's Monthly Outlook!According to a Reuters report, Southern Copper Corp. announced the partial suspension of a plant in Peru used to produce copper.The plant will not restart for another 3-5 days, according to the report, as the miner works on tailings and railway infrastructure.Eddy,This is one of the daily steel feeds I get updated on market conditions.
Article is very upbeat on Steel sales for 2018 and current mill capacity levels .Thanks,
SamYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service