This Morning in Metals U.S. steel capacity utilization rate hits 81.8%gui yong nian/Adobe StockThis morning in metals news, the U.S steel sector posted a capacity utilization rate of 81.8% through the first two months of the year, a major copper conference has been canceled amid coronavirus concerns and a British Steel takeover deal has finally been reached.Looking for metal price forecasting and data analysis in one easy-to-use platform? Inquire about MetalMiner Insights today!The U.S. steel sector posted a capacity utilization rate of 81.8% for the year through Feb. 29, the American Iron and Steel Institute reported.U.S. steel mills produced 16.35 million tons during the period, up 0.8% year over year.As governments and organizations around the world take measures to mitigate the spread of the coronavirus, Covid-19, a major copper conference has been canceled.The Center for Copper Mining and Studies announced the Cesco Week Santiago and Cesco Dinner, scheduled for March 23-27, have been canceled."For the Center for Copper and Mining Studies, the welfare and safety of the attendees who participate each year in both Cesco Week Santiago and Cesco Dinner is our top priority," the center said in a release Monday. "Due to the uncertainty generated by the current situation of Covid-19, we have made the difficult decision to cancel both events, which were scheduled between March 23 and 27, 2020."That said, this implies that both the World Copper Conference organized by CRU and Cesco Dinner will not take place this year."In a process dating back to last May, when the struggling British Steel was forced into liquidation, a takeover deal for the U.K.'s second-largest steelmaker has finally been agreed, the BBC reported.Metal prices fluctuate. Key is knowing when and how much to buy with MetalMiner Outlook. Request a free trial.According to the BBC, China's Jingye Group has reached a deal to take over British Steel, including its Scunthorpe and Teesside plants, saving approximately 3,200 jobs in the process.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service