This Morning in Metals Deadline Extended for Review of Tata-Thyssenkrupp JVbas121/Adobe StockThis morning in metals news, the deadline was extended for consideration of the proposed European joint venture between Tata Steel and Thyssenkrupp, an explosion at Tata Steel's Port Talbot steelworks early Friday led to two injuries and Tata Steel expects to locate all of its production in India by 2025.Need buying strategies for steel? Request your two-month free trial of MetalMiner's OutlookThe European Commission's deadline for consideration of the proposed European joint venture between Tata Steel and Thyssenkrupp is being pushed back seven days to June 17, Reuters reported.The proposed joint venture of the companies' European operations would form the second-largest steelmaking entity in Europe (behind only ArcelorMittal).An explosion at Tata Steel's Port Talbot steelworks Friday morning led to two injuries, the BBC reported."All emergency services immediately swung into action," Tata Steel said in a statement. "All fires have now been extinguished. Two of our employees sustained minor injuries and all employees have been accounted for. All the necessary assistance and medical care is being provided to ensure quick recovery. Investigations are underway to assess the damage and the potential impact."Tata Steel expects to move its 32 million metric tons of production to India by 2025, S&P Global Platts reported.Want to a see Cold Rolled price forecast? Get two monthly reports for free!According to the report, 56% of the firm's capacity is based in India, with 44% located elsewhere.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service