This Morning in Metals NAFTA Talks Continue as U.S. Seeks ‘Breakthroughs’This morning in metals news, the U.S. team looks for "breakthroughs" in the renegotiation of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), more than 25,000 British Steel pension members did not respond to a consultation about the future of their pension pots and zinc hits a 10 1/2-year high on supply concerns.Need buying strategies for steel? Try two free months of MetalMiner's OutlookThe sixth round of talks focused on the trilateral trade agreement kicked off last week in Montreal. According to Reuters, the U.S. blocked a Canadian proposal to unblock modernization of the 24-year-old trade deal, instead looking to accelerate negotiations in the hopes of reaching "breakthroughs."According to the Reuters report, however, U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer said the talks have been moving too slowly.The negotiating teams previously hoped to reach some sort of deal before the end of 2017, as each country will host important elections this year (including the Mexican presidential election). However, talks dragged on, as Mexico and Canada bristled at what they perceived to be overly demanding requests from the U.S., such as the suggestion of a sunset clause for the deal and stricter rules of origin for automotive materials.More than 25,000 British Steel pension members have not responded to a consultation regarding the future of their pension pots, according to the BBC.The British Steel Pension Scheme was spun off from Tata Steel's steel business, a precursor to the merger with ThyssenKrupp.Amid supply concerns, zinc prices rose to a 10 1/2-year high, according to Reuters.MetalMiner's Annual Outlook provides 2018 buying strategies for carbon steelAccording to the report, metals rose ahead of tonight's State of the Union address, in which investors will look for President Donald Trump to offer details on potential infrastructure work.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service