This Morning in Metals Nucor to Invest $1.35B for New Kentucky Steel Plate Millnatali_mis/Adobe StockThis morning in metals news, Nucor announced a major investment toward a new steel plate mill in Brandenburg, Kentucky, steel CEOs ask the Trump administration to maintain the Section 232 duty on steel, and copper prices moved up as U.S.-China trade talks resumed today.Need buying strategies for steel? Request your two-month free trial of MetalMiner's OutlookNucor Corporation is making a $1.35 billion investment toward a new steel plate mill in Brandenburg, Kentucky, the steelmaker announced Wednesday.According to a company release, the mill is expected to have an annual capacity of 1.2 million tons and will be fully operational in 2022."This strategic investment will enable us to build a clear market leadership position in the U.S. plate market. Kentucky is an excellent location for this mill, right in the center of America's largest plate consuming region," said John Ferriola, chairman, CEO and president of Nucor Corporation, in a prepared statement. "Our acquisition of the Gallatinsheet mill in Ghent, Kentucky five years ago has been a tremendous success, and we are pleased to add a second mill in the state."With news this week that the Senate is planning on putting forth a bill that will target the president's Section 232 authority, executives of domestic steel companies are asking the Trump administration to hold firm on maintaining the existing duties on steel imports."Now is not the time to blink," U.S. Steel CEO David Burritt was quoted as saying during a hearing Wednesday, according to Reuters. "Section 232 must continue to be applied to all countries, especially the largest import sources, whether that's a tariff or a hard quota. Even our best allies can be conduits for foreign steel from China or elsewhere."The price of copper made gains Thursday as the U.S. and China reconvened for trade talks in Beijing today, Reuters reported.In addition, protests at a Peru copper mine fueled concerns about supply disruption, according to the report.MetalMiner's Annual Outlook provides 2019 buying strategies for carbon steelLME copper rose 0.6% to $6,372 per ton, according to the report.The best thing you shared in this news is how investing a new steel plate mill in Kentucky strategically repositions the industry in the middle of America's biggest steel plate consumer market. Thus, should my dad think of investing in metal milling and manufacturing, I'd strongly suggest that he buys into this Nucor steel manufacturer. Not only would he be assured of consistent upward-trending sales, but he'd also be able to position himself among a network of high-rolling steel plate suppliers.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service