This Morning in Metals U.S. trade deficit down to $45.3B in Januaryfreshidea/Adobe StockThis morning in metals news, the U.S. deficit fell in January, aluminum prices ticked up slightly this week and the CEO of the American Iron and Steel Institute is retiring.Looking for metal price forecasting and data analysis in one easy-to-use platform? Inquire about MetalMiner Insights today!The U.S. goods and services trade deficit reached $45.3 billion in January, down from $48.6 billion in December, the U.S. Census Bureau reported.January exports reached $208.6 billion, down $0.9 billion from December, while January imports were down $4.2 billion to $253.9 billion.Meanwhile, the LME three-month primary aluminum price ticked up slightly, rising from $1,680/mt as of Feb. 28 to $1,726/mt as of March 5.On a month over month basis, the three-month price was up 0.76%, according to MetalMiner IndX data.MetalMiner's monthly buying outlook reports give you pricing and specific buying strategies for 10 metal types. Request your trial now.The American Iron and Steel Institute (AISI) said its President and CEO Thomas J. Gibson will be retiring this fall."Gibson has led AISI since September 2008," AISI said in a release. "Under his leadership, the Institute successfully advocated for once in a generation legislation to strengthen the trade laws against unfair trade practices and level the playing field for steel manufacturers, for successful passage of transportation and infrastructure bills to benefit the steel industry, and for a balanced approach to energy and environmental regulations that do not diminish manufacturing competitiveness and capitalize on the natural gas renaissance in the U.S."AISI said the search for Gibson's successor will begin immediately.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service