This Morning in Metals Iron Ore Prices Continue to Slidenatali_mis/Adobe StockThis morning in metals news, iron ore prices this week have plunged, the Energy Information Administration (EIA) released its short-term energy outlook and China could weaken its currency further.Need buying strategies for steel? Request your two-month free trial of MetalMiner's OutlookAfter reaching five-year highs earlier this year, aided by supply-side disruptions in Brazil and Australia, the iron ore price has plunged this week.The iron ore price reached around $120 per ton earlier this year, but has fallen to the $80s this week. According to Bloomberg, iron ore on the Singapore Exchange for September fell as much as 7% to $86.68 per ton, while Dalian Commodity Exchange futures fell as much as 5.1%.The EIA released its short-term energy outlook this week, predicting average monthly gasoline prices in the U.S. peaked in May at $2.86 per gallon.The EIA estimated U.S. crude oil production in July reached 11.7 million b/d, down 0.3 million b/d from June.Meanwhile, Brent crude spot prices averaged $64 per barrel in July, flat compared with June but down $10 per barrel from July 2019.Recently, the U.S. Treasury Department officially designated China a currency manipulator after China devalued its currency to levels not seen since the financial crisis.MetalMiner's Annual Outlook provides 2019 buying strategies for carbon steelAccording to The New York Times, China could devalue its currency further. Per the report, on Thursday China's central bank set the midpoint of the renminbi's daily trading range above 7 to the U.S. dollar for the first time in over a decade.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service