This Morning in Metals USITC Rules in Anti-Dumping, Countervailing Duty ProbesThe U.S. Department of Commerce. qingwa/Adobe StockThis morning in metals news, the United States International Trade Commission (USITC) made determinations in the anti-dumping and countervailing duty probes of large diameter welded pipe from Canada, Greece, South Korea and Turkey; Thyssenkrupp workers are looking for job guarantees in the case of a collapse of the German firm's European joint venture with Tata Steel; and the Steel Authority of India Ltd. posted 8% crude steel production growth in fiscal year 2019.Need buying strategies for steel? Request your two-month free trial of MetalMiner's OutlookThe USITC made a number of determinations in the ongoing anti-dumping and countervailing duty probes related to imports of large diameter welded pipe from Greece, Turkey, South Korea and Canada."As a result of the USITC's affirmative determinations, Commerce will issue: antidumping duty orders on imports of LDW carbon and alloy steel line pipe from Canada, Greece, Korea, and Turkey; a countervailing duty order on imports of LDW carbon and alloy steel line pipe from Korea; antidumping duty orders on imports of LDW carbon and alloy steel structural pipe from Canada, Korea, and Turkey; and a countervailing duty order on imports of LDW carbon and alloy steel structural pipe from Korea and Turkey," the USITC stated in a release.Workers for German steelmaker Thyssenkrupp are looking for job assurances in case the firm's planned 50:50 joint venture with Tata Steel doesn't work out, Reuters reported.The companies agreed to merge their European operations last year, creating what would ultimately be Europe's second-largest steelmaking entity (behind only ArcelorMittal). Approval of the joint venture, however, is still pending review from European competition authorities.In October, the European Commission launched an investigation of the proposed joint venture, noting concerns that the merger might "reduce competition in the supply of various high-end steels."The state-owned Steel Authority of India Ltd. (SAIL) posted crude steel production growth of 8% in fiscal year 2019, The Economic Times reported.Want to a see Cold Rolled price forecast? Get two monthly reports for free!The New Delhi-based steelmaker churned out 16.3 million tons of crude steel in the fiscal year, according to the report.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service