This Morning in Metals Copper Rises as U.S.-China Trade Talks ResumeBombardho/Adobe StockThis morning in metals news, the copper price got a boost from optimism stemming from the resumption of trade discussions between the world's top two economies, the CEO of Australia's Fortescue was bullish about the Chinese steel sector and British Steel received a PS100 million government loan.Need buying strategies for steel? Request your two-month free trial of MetalMiner's OutlookAs it has been wont to do throughout the U.S.-China trade talk saga, the copper price was supported by Wednesday's restart of trade talks in Beijing between the two economic superpowers.Three-month LME copper moved up 0.2% Wednesday to $6,426 per ton, Reuters reported.While some economic indicators suggest the Chinese economy is slowing down, China's steel sector does not appear to be following that trend, according to Fortescue CEO Elizabeth Gaines.Fortescue is one of the world's largest iron ore producers. In 2018, China posted a record 928.3 million tons of crude steel production."When it comes to China, what we've really seen, particularly in that first quarter, is strong growth in steel production," Gaines said while appearing on CNBC's "Capital Connection."Gaines added that based on conversations with customers in China, she expects steel production growth in China to come in at 3-4% this year.The BBC reported British Steel has secured a PS100 million loan from the government to pay off its E.U. carbon bill.Want to a see Cold Rolled price forecast? Get two monthly reports for free!As the report notes, amid Brexit uncertainty, the European Commission last year opted to suspend U.K. firms' access to free carbon permits -- which can be used to pay for emissions bill or can be traded to raise money -- under the E.U. emissions trading system.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service