This Morning in Metals LME Copper Rebounds; KSA Cuts Steel Export TariffsWindsor/Adobe StockThis morning in metals news, LME copper bounced back Thursday after a down Wednesday, Saudi steel producers are happy about a cut in export tariffs and Volvo made a major announcement regarding the future of its vehicle inventory.Benchmark Your Current Metal Price by Grade, Shape and Alloy: See How it Stacks UpAfter a Wednesday that saw a 0.9% drop for LME copper, the metal bounced back Thursday, ticking up by 0.1%, Reuters reported.The metal moved up from its one-week low, which on Wednesday stood at $5,815 per ton.In the backdrop was the recent release of the minutes of the Federal Reserve's June meeting, revealing "policymakers were increasingly split on the outlook for inflation and how it might affect the future pace of interest rate rises," according to Reuters.Steel producers in Saudi Arabia received good news this week as the government announced it would stop export duties on steel for two years, according to Reuters.According to the report, the government also cut cement export duties by 50%.While Saudi stocks overall were down early Thursday, stocks in the building materials sector showed well, including Al Yamaha Steel Industries, which surged by 2.1%, according to Reuters.The traditional combustion engine took a hit this week when automaker Volvo announced it would build only electric or hybrid vehicles beginning in 2019, The New York Times reported.While the "green" vehicle market is still relatively small, it is growing. As Autodata Corp numbers released this week show, sales of Tesla vehicles, for example, have surged. In the year to date, Tesla sold 23,550 vehicles, good for a 42.7% increase in sales from the same point last year.Of course, those sales figures are tiny when compared with traditional automakers, like GM and Ford, which sold 1.41 million and 1.29 million units, respectively, in the calendar year to date. Sales for those giant automotive brands, however, are down (albeit down from a big 2016 in sales for automakers).Clearly, battery-powered and hybrid vehicles are picking up steam. What does this green wave mean for metals? The boom presages increased demand for metals like cobalt, for example. Also, according to Seeking Alpha, the coming electric vehicle revolution bears bad news for platinum group metals (PGMs), like platinum and palladium.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service