This Morning in Metals Chinese Steelmaking Cities to Extend Production CutsZerophoto/Adobe StockThis morning in metals news, two major Chinese steelmaking cities will have to extend their winter output curbs, Russian aluminum maker Rusal has once again started shipping aluminum supplies to the U.S. market and iron ore on the Dalian Commodity Exchange surged to a seven-week high.Need buying strategies for steel? Request your two-month free trial of MetalMiner's OutlookTwo of the biggest steelmaking cities in China have announced they will extend their steel output curbs, according to Reuters.Beijing imposed blanket production curbs two winters ago, but this past winter announced it was delegating production curbing authority to local governments. The cuts are aimed at tackling rampant pollution throughout the country stemming from industry, like the steel sector.Despite the output cuts, however, China produced a record amount of steel in 2018 at 928.3 million tons.Russian aluminum company Rusal has begun sending supplies to the U.S. market once again, Reuters reported.The return comes as last year the aluminum giant was hit with U.S. sanctions that shocked the aluminum market last April, sending aluminum prices skyward. According to the Reuters report, the company is hoping to win back lost contracts by September (the pivotal time for the closing of supply deals for 2020).Iron ore on the Dalian Commodity Exchange has jumped to a seven-week high, Reuters reported.MetalMiner's Annual Outlook provides 2019 buying strategies for carbon steelAccording to the report, the most-active iron ore contract on the DCE jumped 5.2% on Monday, up to 653.5 yuan ($97.40) per ton.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service