This Morning in Metals Rusal Shares Plummet After U.S. Sanctionsstockquest/Adobe StockThis morning in metals news, Rusal saw its stock tumble after being hit with sanctions by the U.S., President Trump criticizes China's auto tariffs and the U.S. Department of Commerce issued a final affirmative determination in its countervailing duty probe of stainless steel flanges from China.Need buying strategies for steel? Try two free months of MetalMiner's OutlookRussian Aluminum Firm Hit With SanctionsRusal, the world's second-largest aluminum producer, saw its stock drop more than 40% after it was included on a U.S. sanctions list targeting Russian companies and their owners, Reuters reported.According to the report, the sanctions list targeted seven Russian oligarch, including Oleg Deripaska, the former president of Rusal.As the specter of a trade war grows, so too does the war of words.President Trump castigated China's tariffs on automobiles, calling the gap between U.S. auto tariffs and Chinese auto tariffs an example of "stupid trade" in a tweet Monday morning.The president tweeted: "When a car is sent to the United States from China, there is a Tariff to be paid of 2 1/2%. When a car is sent to China from the United States, there is a Tariff to be paid of 25%. Does that sound like free or fair trade. No, it sounds like STUPID TRADE - going on for years!"In other trade news, the U.S. Department of Commerce issued a final affirmative determination in its countervailing duty investigation of stainless steel flanges from China.The DOC concluded the products received countervailable subsidies of 174.73%.MetalMiner's Annual Outlook provides 2018 buying strategies for carbon steelThe case now moves to the U.S. International Trade Commission, which is scheduled to make a final determination on or around May 21. If it rules in the affirmative, a countervailing duty order will be issued.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service