This Morning in Metals Moody’s Downgrades Outlook for U.S. Steel Sectorbuhanovskiy/AdobeStockThis morning in metals news, the U.S. steel industry received a downgrade from Moody's, a Russian tin producer is looking to expand production and oil prices have taken a fall.Keep up to date on everything going on in the world of trade and tariffs via MetalMiner's Trade Resource Center.With U.S. steel prices trending downward of late, ratings service Moody's has downgraded the U.S. sector.Moody's downgraded the outlook for the sector from "stable" to "negative.""The price for hot-rolled coil, the benchmark steel price, declined steadily since the second half of 2018, save for a short-lived bounce in August," Moody's Senior Vice President Carol Cowan said. "The high prices seen in the first half of 2018 were not supported by underlying demand fundamentals, however, but more the market's expectation of the US imposing import tariffs, as well as supply concerns, and as such, some price correction was expected."According to the International Tin Association (ITA), Russian tin miner Seligdar is looking to boost its tin concentrate production.After more than tripling its tin-in-concentrate production to 1,000 tons during the first half of the year, the firm is aiming to produce 6,000 tons per year by 2024, according to the ITA.On the heels of attacks at two Saudi Arabian oil installations in September, oil prices received a boost.However, that boost proved to be short-lived.Looking for metal price forecasting and data analysis in one easy-to-use platform? Inquire about MetalMiner Insights today!According to Reuters, both Brent crude and U.S. WTI were down more than 5% last week.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service