This Morning in Metals China Wants Removal of Tariffs for Final Trade Dealfreshidea/Adobe StockThis morning in metals news, China wants the U.S. to remove tariffs before a final trade deal can be reached, U.S. Steel announced it would offer $300 million in senior convertible notes and Alcoa released its third-quarter financial results.Keep up to date on everything going on in the world of trade and tariffs via MetalMiner's Trade Resource Center.As trade talks between the U.S. and China continued with another round of top-level negotiations last week, China indicated that tariffs must be removed in order for a final deal to be reached, CNBC reported."Both sides' ultimate goal for the negotiations is to end the trade war, cancel all additional tariffs," Ministry of Commerce spokesman Gao Feng was quoted as saying. "This is good for China, good for the U.S. and good for the world."U.S. Steel announced Tuesday that it plans to offer $300 million in senior convertible notes "in a private offering made only to persons reasonably expected to be qualified institutional buyers.""U.S. Steel intends to use the net proceeds from the offerings for general corporate purposes, including, without limitation, for previously announced strategic investments and capital expenditures," the steelmaker said.Bauxite, alumina and aluminum producer Alcoa announced a net loss of $221 million in the third quarter of 2019, compared with a net loss of $402 million in Q2 2019.The firm reported an adjusted net loss, excluding special items, of $82 million for the third quarter."In the third quarter, Alcoa reported adjusted EBITDA excluding special items of $388 million, down $67 million from the prior quarter, primarily due to lower alumina pricing that was partially offset by higher alumina sales volume and lower production costs," the company said.Looking for metal price forecasting and data analysis in one easy-to-use platform? Inquire about MetalMiner Insights today!In addition, third-quarter revenues of $2.6 billion were down 5% from the previous quarter "primarily due to lower alumina prices," the company said.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service