This Morning in Metals Clock Ticks on NAFTA Talksronniechua/Adobe StockThis morning in metals news, U.S. House Speaker Paul Ryan sets a deadline for the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) talks, steel imports are up through the first four months of the year, and Pew survey data sheds light on Americans' opinions on free-trade deals and the Trump administration's Section 232 steel and aluminum tariffs.Need buying strategies for steel? Try two free months of MetalMiner's OutlookAccording to a Reuters report, U.S. House Speaker Paul Ryan has set a May 17 deadline for a NAFTA deal to be sent to the current Congress for approval.Negotiators from the three NAFTA countries have been meeting in Washington since Monday, according to the report.According to import data from the American Iron and Steel Institute (AISI), imports of finished steel last month were up 17.6% from the final total of imported steel in March.In addition, the finished steel import market share was 29% in April, up from the year-to-date figure of 26%.According to survey data from the Pew Research Center, Americans' views on the Trump administration's Section 232 tariffs on steel and aluminum fall sharply along partisan lines (unsurprisingly)."Republicans generally have a positive view of potential increases in tariffs on steel and aluminum imports," according to the Pew report. "About six-in-ten (58%) say they would be good for the country, while just 26% say such tariff increases would be bad for the country. Democratic opinion is the opposite: Only 22% of Democrats think increasing steel and aluminum tariffs would be good for the U.S., while 63% say they would be bad for the country."However, it should be noted that the issue of steel and aluminum tariffs, while firmly positioned front and center in metals industry watchers, seemingly isn't at the forefront of Americans' minds.MetalMiner's Annual Outlook provides 2018 buying strategies for carbon steel"While the Trump administration's proposals to increase tariffs on steel and aluminum imports from other countries have drawn significant attention among business interests and foreign leaders, a substantial share of the U.S. public has heard little or nothing about these proposals," the report continues."Just 29% of the public says it has heard "a lot" about proposals to raise tariffs on steel and aluminum, and 41% say they have heard "a little." Roughly three-in-ten (29%) say they have heard "nothing at all" about these proposals."Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service