This Morning in Metals Biggest Chinese Aluminum Smelter to Cut Capacitystockquest/Adobe StockThis morning in metals news, the biggest aluminum smelter in China is cutting back on outdated capacity, New York State's governor and legislative leaders announced a "Buy American" deal for state purchases of iron and steel, and the European Union's trade commissioner says the European bloc "will have to respond" if President Donald Trump imposes trade tariffs on steel imports from China, the EU and other nations.Benchmark Your Current Metal Price by Grade, Shape and Alloy: See How it Stacks UpChina Hongqiao Group Ltd. will be cutting back on outdated aluminum capacity, Bloomberg reported.The cutback comes at the same time as the Chinese government focuses on illegal production, according to the report.Chinese overcapacity is a main talking point for metals producers around the world, especially in the U.S. A Department of Commerce hearing on the government's Section 232 investigation of aluminum imports is scheduled for 9 a.m. Eastern Time on Thursday, June 22.Analysts expect further Chinese aluminum production cutbacks throughout the year.As the U.S. aluminum and steel industries await the Department of Commerce's Section 232 investigation findings, New York politicians agreed on a proposal for buying American iron and steel.New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo and other state leaders announced a "Buy American" agreement, which calls for the use of American iron and steel for some state road and bridge projects, Newsday reported.According to the report, the proposal gives preference to American producers for iron and steel contracts worth more than $1 million.Although the proposal is a scaled-down version of the initial bill -- the result of objections from neighboring Canada -- the bill fits well in a climate dominated by talk about the potential outcomes and ramifications of the Section 232 investigation.As the U.S. Department of Commerce gets set to announce the findings and recommendations of its Section 232 investigations, trading partners abroad are keeping tabs on the process.EU Trade Commissioner Cecilia Malmstrom said the EU "will need to respond" if President Donald Trump places tariffs on steel from the EU (and other nations), POLITICO reported.Free Download: The June 2017 MMI ReportShe mentioned Chinese overcapacity and market distortions as sources of the U.S.'s concerns about steel imports. Even if tariffs applied to Chinese steel don't directly affect EU nations, Malmstrom said they will still be hit "very hard."In an increasingly interconnected world, rarely does a trade policy targeting one country -- whether formally or in spirit -- only affect that country. As the U.S. is expected to take aim at China with any trade policy readjustments that come as a result of the Section 232 investigation, other nations could very well be affected.The findings of the 232 investigation are expected to be announced in the near future. Thursday morning's Department of Commerce hearing on aluminum should shed additional light on the government's thinking.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service