This Afternoon in Metals Aluminum Use in Vehicles Expected to Risestockquest/Adobe StockThis afternoon in metals news, a recent survey of automakers indicates aluminum's use in vehicles will grow in a big way over the next decade, U.S. steel production for the week is down slightly from the previous week and copper keeps on soaring.Benchmark Your Current Metal Price by Grade, Shape and Alloy: See How it Stacks UpAccording to a recent survey of automakers released by The Aluminum Association and conducted by Ducker Worldwide, automakers expect usage of the light, durable metal to increase significantly in the manufacturing of automobiles.Total aluminum content for North American lightweight vehicles will increase to nearly 9 billion pounds, reaching 565 pounds per vehicle (PPV) and representing 16% of total vehicle weight by 2028, according to the survey results."As our automotive customers embrace a multi-material approach to new car and truck design, that directly translates to increased amounts of aluminum," said Heidi Brock, president and CEO of the Aluminum Association, in the release. "On top of 40 years of uninterrupted growth, the aluminum industry is experiencing a level of sustained growth not seen before in any market or product sector. However, the true winners of this change are American consumers who can choose next-generation cars and trucks that are high performing, efficient, safe, sustainable and more fun to drive."According to the release, the expected rise in aluminum use is "consistent with the emerging trend of automakers transitioning to a multi-material vehicle (MMV) design approach, choosing aluminum for doors, hoods and trunk lids, body-in-white, bumpers and crash boxes."U.S. steel production dipped 0.2 percent from the week ending July 22 to the week ending July 29, according to data from the American Iron and Steel Institute (AISI).Approximately 1.67 millions tons were produced last week, compared with 1.77 million tons during the week ending July 22.However, the July 29 total is a significant step up from total production for the same week in 2016. Production last week was up 6.1% from the same week in 2016.Copper continues to have a great 2017, recently hitting its two-year peak. According to CNBC, the metal jumped 7% in July alone.A global supply deficit and a flagging dollar have supported copper prices this year.Free Download: The July 2017 MMI ReportWhile some think copper could keep its momentum in the short term, many analysts predict a slowdown as the year progresses.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service