This Morning in Metals Japan’s Aluminum Industry Calls for End to U.S. Aluminum TariffDmitry/Adobe StockThis morning in metals news, Japan is calling for the U.S. to ditch its recently imposed Section 232 aluminum tariff, U.S. steel exports were up 13% last year and Texas Gov. Greg Abbott announced a $500 million investment from JSW Steel for its facility in Baytown, Texas.Need buying strategies for steel? Try two free months of MetalMiner's OutlookJapan's aluminum industry on Thursday called for the U.S. to ditch its recently imposed 10% tariff on aluminum imports, Reuters reported.According to the report, Japan is concerned that global supplies of aluminum could now be redirected from the U.S. and flood the Asian market.The U.S. saw its steel exports rise 13% in 2017, according to a report by the Northwest Indiana Times citing American Iron and Steel Institute (AISI) data.The U.S. also once again led the way in imports, taking in a world-leading 34.6 million tons of steel last year.India's JSW Steel is investing $500 million in its Baytown, Texas facility, Texas Gov. Greg Abbott said Thursday.Lower your aluminum spend - Take a free trial of MetalMiner's Monthly Outlook!"JSW's motto is 'Better Everyday,' and that's the same approach we take in Texas," said Abbott, as quoted by Click 2 Houston. "The $500 million investment from JSW Steel to expand its operations in Texas shows what we can achieve when we work to be better every single day. Made in Texas is a powerful label, and I thank JSW for investing in our great state. We look forward to forging an even stronger partnership and continuing economic and job growth in the Lone Star State."Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service