This Morning in Metals General Motors Strike Enters Third WeekGM workers earlier this month went on a nationwide strike, the first since 2007 at the Big 3 automaker. Photo by Jeffrey Sauger for General MotorsThis morning in metals news, the nationwide General Motors strike has entered its third week, Norsk Hydro is opening a new aluminum research lab and Thyssenkrupp announced a new CEO will take over Oct. 1.Keep up to date on everything going on in the world of trade and tariffs via MetalMiner's Trade Resource Center.Earlier this month, the United Automobile Workers (UAW) union announced a nationwide strike at General Motors, the first for the automaker since 2007.Now, the strike is entering its third week, as negotiations between the union and GM continue."We are standing strong and standing together on #SolidaritySunday!" UAW said in a statement released Sunday."UAW members across the country will continue to stand strong together until GM ensures fairness and economic justice for workers."Norwegian firm Norsk Hydro is opening a new aluminum research lab in Sweden, at which it will "test new types of aluminium alloys and their extrudability for eventual use in applications that are innovative and which can help customers reduce their carbon footprint.""The Extrusion Test Center is located adjacent to Hydro's product application lab in Finspang, and includes a new aluminium extrusion press and metal casting facilities," Hydro said. "The investment extends and complements the company's global research and product application capabilities toward the growing market for sustainable aluminium solutions."Earlier this month, MetalMiner's Stuart Burns delved into the challenges faced by German steelmaker Thyssnkrupp, including its efforts to spin off its profitable elevator business and its departure from the German blue chip DAX index.The shakeup doesn't stop there, however, for the German firm.The company announced the termination of CEO Guido Kerkhoff's mandate; Kerkhoff will be replaced by Martina Merz as of Oct. 1.Kerkhoff's tenure as CEO ends after just over a year, having been appointed to the role in July 2018.Looking for metal price forecasting and data analysis in one easy-to-use platform? Inquire about MetalMiner Insights today!"I would like to thank the employees of thyssenkrupp for their support, which I received especially last year," Kerkhoff said in a prepared statement. "My goal has always been making thyssenkrupp successful again. It was therefore a matter of course for me last year to take responsibility for the company at a particularly difficult time. I am convinced that the strategic realignment we announced in May will be a success. The company is close to my heart, so I wish Martina Merz, the new Executive Board and all employees all the best for the future and a successful future for the company."Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service