This Morning in Metals Manufacturers Group Applauds DOC DecisionThe U.S. Department of Commerce. qingwa/Adobe StockThis morning in metals news, U.S. manufacturers are pleased that the U.S. Department of Commerce's ruling in a recent antidumping case treats China as a non-market economy, BHP looks to meet copper demand with more drilling and U.S. Steel reports its third-quarter earnings.Benchmark Your Current Metal Price by Grade, Shape and Alloy: See How it Stacks UpThe Manufacturers for Trade Enforcement (MTE) expressed their support for the Department of Commerce's recent antidumping ruling on Chinese aluminum foil (for which dumping margins were assigned based on the department's non-market economy dumping methodology)."Fair international competition and a level playing field are essential for the global competitiveness of U.S. manufacturers," said Thomas J. Gibson, president and CEO of the American Iron and Steel Institute and co-chairman of the MTE. "China has not met the statutory criteria to be treated as a market economy, and we applaud our government's commitment to ensuring China is not prematurely awarded market economy status."Substantial state intervention in the Chinese economy has resulted in significant overcapacity in many manufacturing sectors in China while also distorting global markets and hurting American manufacturers. Jobs have been lost in all of our industries. China should not be afforded market economy status while still maintaining a state-controlled economic system that encourages unfair trade practices that injure multiple U.S. industries."Miner BHP, in efforts to meet growing copper demand in an increasingly electrified automotive market, is turning to the drill, according to Reuters.According to the report, BHP's copper exploration budget has hovered at an annual average of $60 million the last 4-5 years.U.S. Steel reported third-quarter net earnings of $147 million, or $0.83 per diluted share. Third quarter 2016 net earnings were $51 million, or $0.32 per diluted share.Free Sample Report: Our Annual Metal Buying Outlook"Our third quarter results were modestly better than we expected, with stable operating performance at each of our segments and our Tubular segment producing positive EBITDA in the quarter," said Dave Burritt, U.S. Steel's president and CEO, in a release. "Our results for the first nine months of 2017 improved over the first nine months of 2016, with all three of our segments improving compared with 2016."Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service