This Morning in Metals Steel Imports Up 19.3% on the Yeargui yong nian/Adobe StockThis morning in metals news, U.S. steel imports dipped in September, car sales in the U.K. fell last month and the U.S. International Trade Commission (USITC) launched a new Section 337 investigation.Benchmark Your Current Metal Price by Grade, Shape and Alloy: See How it Stacks UpUsing the Commerce Department's most recent Steel Import Monitoring and Analysis (SIMA) data, the American Iron and Steel Institute (AISI) reported yesterday that U.S. steel imports dropped 15.7% in September from the previous month.For the first nine months of the year, however, imports are up 19.3% to 29,587,000 net tons.According to the data, through the first nine months of 2017 the largest offshore suppliers were South Korea (2,963,000 NT, down 1% from the same period in 2016), Turkey (1,919,000 NT, up 4%) and Japan (1,224,000 NT, down 15%).The estimated steel import market share for the year to date is 27%, according to the data.New car sales in the U.K. dropped 9.3% in the month of September, marking the sixth consecutive month of drops, according to data from the Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders.There were 426,170 new units registered in September in the U.K. The September decline marked the first time September sales in the U.K. have dropped in six years.The USITC announced a new investigation Thursday into thermoplastic-encapsulated electric motors, components, and products and vehicles using those motors.According to the USITC release, "the products at issue in the investigation are automotive coolant pumps, water pumps, power steering motors, actuators, drive motors, transaxle assemblies, and other thermoplastic-encapsulated electric motors, and automobiles that contain such components."The investigation stems from a Sept. 5 complaint filed by Intellectual Ventures II LLC of Bellevue, Washington.Free Sample Report: Our Annual Metal Buying Outlook"The complaint alleges violations of section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930 in the importation into the United States and sale of certain thermoplastic-encapsulated electric motors, components thereof, and products and vehicles containing same that infringe patents asserted by the complainant," the release continues. "The complainant requests that the USITC issue a limited exclusion order and cease and desist orders."Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service