This Morning in Metals U.S. Dept. of Defense Backs Targeted Steel, Aluminum Tariffsgui yong nian/Adobe StockThis morning in metals news, the U.S. Department of Defense recently indicated it would prefer targeted tariffs as opposed to a blanket strategy, Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull will press President Donald Trump on an assurance last year that Australia would be exempted and London copper is down for the week.Buying Aluminum in 2018? Download MetalMiner's free annual price outlookIn light of the pending Section 232 probes of steel and aluminum imports, the Department of Defense said it would favor a more targeted approach to tariffs.In addition, the DoD prefers a delay to any measures curbing aluminum imports, according to a Reuters report.Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull plans to discuss with President Trump on Saturday the assurances given last year that Australia would be spared from Section 232-related steel and aluminum tariffs, according to the Financial Review.The recently released Section 232 reports make no mention of an exception for Australia. According to the Financial Review report, Turnbull will seek to revisit assurances made last July vis-a-vis a carve-out for Australia.London copper and zinc dropped this week as a result of profit taking, Reuters reported. In addition, the dollar strengthened and uncertainty about demand in China contributed to the drop this week.MetalMiner's Annual Outlook provides 2018 buying strategies for carbon steelAccording to the report, LME three-month copper dropped 0.7% to $7,110 a ton in official open outcry trading on Friday.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service