This Morning in Metals Trump Administration Close to Decision on China Trade Policykropic/Adobe StockThis morning in metals news, President Donald Trump might be close to a decision on how to deal with what are considered unfair Chinese trade policies, environmentally friendly aluminum produced by hydro-powered smelters is coming at a hefty price tag and aluminum got a positive boost Wednesday that might prove short-lived.Benchmark Your Current Metal Price by Grade, Shape and Alloy: See How it Stacks UpAccording to a Reuters report, a Trump administration official said President Trump is close to a decision on how to respond to Chinese trade practices he considers unfair.While the results of the Section 232 investigations into steel and aluminum imports have yet to be announced, Reuters reports Trump might ask U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer to initiate a Section 301 investigation of Chinese trade practices. A Section 301 investigation offers the "authority to enforce trade agreements, resolve trade disputes, and open foreign markets to U.S. goods and services."Section 301 was most recently used this past December by the Obama administration in the long-running dispute over the EU's ban on U.S. beef, which dates back to 1989.Hydro-powered aluminum smelters producing so-called "green" aluminum are charging quite a bit for their product, according to a Reuters report.Why? It's partly because industrial consumers are under pressure to reduce their carbon footprints, so demand is high.Big names like Norway's Norsk Hydro, U.S.-based Alcoa, Russia's Rusal and London-listed Rio Tinto all view this green wave as good news, Reuters reports.Will more and more companies get on board with aluminum produced by more environmentally friendly processes? It's safe to say that demand will likely only continue to grow in this sector (and for greener products and processes, generally).Continuing with the aluminum thread, the metal got a boost Wednesday on news of expected capacity cuts, Reuters reported.According to Reuters, the aluminum price moved up because of expectations of Chinese capacity cuts. However, as has been mentioned here before, the aluminum momentum might not last, as the capacity cuts might just end up being wiped out by new capacity.Free Download: The July 2017 MMI ReportFor example, Hongqiao Group plans to shut more than 2 million tons a year of outdated smelter capacity, Reuters reported -- but after new investments, capacity will likely remain around current levels.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service