This Morning in Metals U.S. Steel Import Market Share Hits 17% in Octobergui yong nian/Adobe StockThis morning in metals news, U.S. steel import permit applications surged in October, U.S. Steel has laid off workers at its Granite City operation and Port Hedland iron ore shipments to China dropped in October.Keep up to date on everything going on in the world of trade and tariffs via MetalMiner's Trade Resource Center.U.S. steel import permit applications for October jumped 34.6% compared with the September final import total, the American Iron and Steel Institute (AISI) reported this week.Import permit applications for October totaled 2.56 million tons, according to AISI.Meanwhile, steel import market share in October checked in at 17%.On the heels of news of layoffs at U.S. Steel's taconite operations in Minnesota, the steelmaker has reportedly also laid off an unspecified number of nonunion workers at its Granite City, Illinois operation, the Belleville News-Democrat reported.The Granite City operation famously received a boost after the Trump administration's imposition of Section 232 tariffs on imported steel. Previously idled, in March and June of 2018, U.S. Steel announced it would restart two blast furnaces at the plant, welcoming back approximately 800 workers in the process.Exports of iron ore to China from Australia's Port Hedland fell in October, Reuters reported.Looking for metal price forecasting and data analysis in one easy-to-use platform? Inquire about MetalMiner Insights today!On a month-over-month basis, iron ore exports to China from the major port dropped 0.7% in October.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service