This Morning in Metals Aluminum Industry Testifies to ITC on Foil Importsstockquest/Adobe StockThis morning in metals news, aluminum industry officials testified to the U.S. International Trade Commission regarding the ongoing aluminum foil investigation, Mexico's economy minister says automotive rules of origin will change as part of the ongoing renegotiation talks surrounding the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) and copper is on track for its biggest weekly drop in two months.Buying Aluminum in 2018? Download MetalMiner's free annual price outlookRepresentatives of the aluminum industry in the U.S. testified before the ITC earlier today as part of the final phase of an investigation of aluminum foil imports."The relief we seek will help ensure that the U.S. aluminum foil industry can compete fairly in the U.S. market," Aluminum Association CEO and President Heidi Brock said in her testimony. "The Aluminum Association is committed to combating unfair trade practices that impact our industry while we strive for a level playing field. The U.S. government must enforce its trade rules so that companies can continue to innovate, invest and grow with confidence in the United States."Brock's full testimony can be read here.Renegotiation talks surrounding NAFTA, the 24-year-old trilateral trade deal, have been contentious at times. The U.S. negotiating team has sought to win concessions from Canada and Mexico, among them including tighter automotive rules of origin.On Thursday, Mexico's Economy Minister Ildefonso Guajardo said the rules of origin will change, Reuters reported.In good news for copper buyers, the price of the metal has dipped significantly this week amid significant market volatility.Want to see an Aluminum Price forecast? Take a free trial!According to Reuters, copper is on track to post its biggest weekly loss since early December. London copper dipped below the $7,000 mark yesterday, closing at $6,837 per ton.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service