This Morning in Metals In NAFTA Talks, U.S. Seeks Stricter Auto Content Rulesronniechua/Adobe StockThis morning in metals news, NAFTA renegotiation talks continued with the U.S. aiming to tighten automotive content rules in favor of North American-made metals, Allegheny Technologies Incorporated (ATI) commented on its Q3 earnings and Alcoa reached an early termination agreement for a power contract tied to one of its Texas smelters.Benchmark Your Current Metal Price by Grade, Shape and Alloy: See How it Stacks UpTrade negotiators from the U.S., Canada and Mexico are in Arlington, Va., until Oct. 17, engaged in a fourth round of talks focused on the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA).According to a Reuters report this morning, the U.S. is seeking stricter rules for automotive content, demanding a higher percentage of the materials -- including aluminum and steel -- that go into automotive manufacturing should come from North America.According to the report, the proposal -- which includes aluminum, steel, copper and plastic resins -- would place those materials on the auto parts tracing list for the first time in the history of the 23-year-old trilateral trade agreement.ATI commented on third quarter financial results on Thursday, and announced a non-cash net of tax charge of $114 million, or $(1.05) per share, for goodwill impairment related to the Cast Products business."Excluding the goodwill impairment charge, we expect our third quarter 2017 results to be in line with our outlook provided in July," said Rich Harshman, ATI's chairman, president and chief executive officer, in a company release.On Friday morning, Alcoa announced power provider Luminant Generation Company LLC has terminated the electricity contract tied to Alcoa's Rockdale Operations in Texas.The smelter at Rockdale has been fully curtailed since the end of 2008, according to the Alcoa release. The termination of the contract was effective Oct. 1.Free Download: The October 2017 MMI ReportAlcoa expects an annual improvement to net income and adjusted EBITDA of $60 million to $70 million as a result of the contract termination, beginning in the fourth quarter of 2017.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service