This Morning in Metals WTO Panel Rules in U.S.’s Favor, Opening Door to $7.5B in Tariffs on E.U. GoodsRicochet64/Adobe StockThis morning in metals news, the WTO ruled in favor of the U.S. in its ongoing battle with the E.U. over Airbus subsidies, striking workers at General Motors rejected the automaker's latest offer, a Louisiana steel group has gone bankrupt and copper prices are slumping.Keep up to date on everything going on in the world of trade and tariffs via MetalMiner's Trade Resource Center.As part of the ongoing saga between the U.S. and E.U., a World Trade Organization (WTO) arbitration panel was set this week to determine the level of countertariff measures the U.S. would be permitted to apply against E.U. goods (in retaliation against the E.U. for its subsidies toward aircraft manufacturer Airbus).On Wednesday, the panel announced it had ruled in the U.S.'s favor, affording the U.S. the ability to wield $7.5 billion in tariffs on E.U. goods.A proposed tariff list released earlier this year by the United States Trade Representative included copper alloys, among other items.A GM offer to end the UAW strike -- now in its third week -- was sent back by the union because it did not adequately address workers' demands, according to UAW Director and Vice President Terry Dittes."Last night, Monday, September 30, 2019, GM passed a comprehensive proposal at 9:40 pm across the bargaining table," Dittes said in a prepared statement."This proposal that the Company provided to us on day 15 of the strike did not satisfy your contract demands or needs. There were many areas that came up short like health care, wages, temporary employees, skilled trades and job security to name a few. Additionally, concessionary proposals still remain in the company's proposals as of late last night."A Louisiana steel group has filed for bankruptcy, nola.com reported, impacting 400 workers at the Bayou Steel Group facility.According to the report, the company has as much as $100 million in outstanding debts.The closing comes 40 years after the mill in LaPlace, Louisiana, first opened, according to the report.LME copper was bid down 0.5% on Wednesday, Reuters reported, down to $5,660 per ton.Looking for metal price forecasting and data analysis in one easy-to-use platform? Inquire about MetalMiner Insights today!As MetalMiner's Stuart Burns explained earlier today, copper prices are forecast to decline further in the year ahead.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service