This Morning in Metals U.S. steel sector starts 2020 with 82% capacity utilizationbuhanovskiy/AdobeStockThis morning in metals news, the U.S. steel sector posted a capacity utilization rate of 82.0% to start the new year, copper prices made gains Tuesday and the Port Talbot steelworks' losses continue to trouble Tata Steel.Looking for metal price forecasting and data analysis in one easy-to-use platform? Inquire about MetalMiner Insights today!We're only a week into the new year, but steel production data is already rolling in.U.S. steel production for the year through Jan. 4 totaled 1.9 million tons at a capacity utilization rate of 82.0%, according to the American Iron and Steel Institute (AISI).The production total marks a 2.0% year-over-year increase from the same period in 2018, when capacity utilization checked in at 79.4%.Copper prices increased for a second straight session Tuesday, Reuters reported.LME three-month copper gained 0.6% to $6,175 per ton, according to the report.Citing the South China Morning Post, the report noted a Chinese trade delegation is scheduled to visit the U.S. next week for the signing of the recently agreed "phase one" trade deal.The U.K.'s largest steel plant, Port Talbot, has continued to post losses, raising doubt about its future amid comments by the chairman of Tata Sons Group.The Port Talbot steel plant, owned by India's Tata Steel, posted pre-tax losses of PS371 million last year, according to the report.Keep up to date on everything going on in the world of trade and tariffs via MetalMiner's Trade Resource Center.As a result, Natarajan Chandrasekaran, chairman of Tata Sons Group, said in an interview Sunday that Tata "can't have a situation where India keeps funding losses."The comments come amid a challenging time for steel production in the U.K., as British Steel's future has not yet been settled.British Steel, the U.K.'s second-largest steelmaker, was forced into liquidation in May 2019. After talks with an arm of Turkey's military pension fund fizzled, China's Jingye Group emerged as the favorite to take over the struggling steelmaker late last year.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service