This Morning in Metals U.S. Aluminum Industry Applauds DOC Decision on Chinese Foilstockquest/Adobe StockThis morning in metals news, the U.S. aluminum industry expressed support for the U.S. Department of Commerce's ruling that Chinese aluminum foil is benefiting from government subsidies, Indian steel company Tata Steel is expected to detach its U.K. pension scheme from its business and, in consumer products news, a recent report says copper cocktail mugs may be causing food poisoning.Benchmark Your Current Metal Price by Grade, Shape and Alloy: See How it Stacks UpThe U.S. aluminum industry came out in support of a U.S. Department of Commerce ruling Tuesday, which said that Chinese aluminum foil was benefiting from government subsidies.According to the preliminary determination of the countervailing duty investigation, Chinese exporters of aluminum foil received countervailing subsidies 16.56 to 80.97%, Secretary of Commerce Wilbur Ross announced Tuesday.Per a DOC release, the Commerce Department "will instruct U.S. Customs and Border Protection to collect cash deposits from importers of aluminum foil from China based on these preliminary rates.""The United States is committed to free, fair and reciprocal trade, and will continue to validate the information provided to us that brought us to this decision," Ross said. "The Trump Administration will not stand idly by as harmful trade practices from foreign nations attempt to take advantage of our essential industries, workers, and businesses."Per the release, imports of aluminum foil from China last year were valued at an estimated $389 million.The Aluminum Association applauded the DOC determination."The association and its foil-producing members are very pleased with the Commerce Department's finding and we greatly appreciate Secretary Ross's leadership in enforcing U.S. trade laws to combat unfair practices," said Heidi Brock, President and CEO of the Aluminum Association, in a prepared statement. "This is an important step to begin restoring a level playing field for U.S. aluminum foil production, an industry that supports more than 20,000 direct, indirect, and induced American jobs, and accounts for $6.8 billion in economic activity."U.S. aluminum foil producers are among the most competitive producers in the world, but they cannot compete against products that are subsidized by the Chinese government and sold at unfairly low prices."The ruling stems from the March 9 filing of antidumping and countervailing duty petitions by The Aluminum Association's Trade Enforcement Working Group. The petition marked the first time the Aluminum Association has filed unfair trade cases on behalf of its members in its nearly 85-year history, according to the Aluminum Association release.According to a BBC report, an announcement from Tata Steel regarding the separation of its British pension scheme from its businesses could be coming within days.The pension scheme has been a "significant barrier" in merger talks between Tata and German steel producer ThyssenKrupp, according to the report.According to the BBC, Tata "has been in negotiations with pension regulators and trustees" of the PS15 billion British Steel Pension Scheme.A recent report might give drinkers of Moscow Mules pause.CBS News reported health officials in Iowa made the declaration that copper cocktail mugs -- often used to drink the popular Moscow Mule cocktail -- might cause food poisoning "after examining the poisonous nature of copper and copper alloys mixing with food."Per an advisory bulletin from Iowa's Alcoholic Beverages Division, the federal Food and Drug Administration's Model Food Code prohibits copper from coming into direct contact with foods that have a pH below 6.0 -- for example, vinegar, fruit juice or wine.Free Sample Report: Our Annual Metal Buying OutlookThe Moscow Mule, an increasingly popular cocktail, includes lime juice.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service