This Morning in Metals Toyota, Panasonic Mull Working Together on Electric BatteriesMichael Flippo/Adobe StockThis morning in metals news, Toyota and Panasonic are considering working together on developing electric car batteries, U.S. Steel did not test for toxic materials after a chemical spill into Lake Michigan in October and U.S. raw steel production last week was up 4.3% compared with the same week in 2016.Benchmark Your Current Metal Price by Grade, Shape and Alloy: See How it Stacks UpAccording to Reuters, Toyota and Panasonic are considering joining forcing in developing electric batteries for vehicles.Panasonic already manufactures batteries for Toyota's gasoline-electric and plug-in hybrid vehicles, according to the report.Documents posted online by state regulators Tuesday show that following a U.S. Steel chemical spill in a Lake Michigan tributary in October, the company did not test the waters for toxic materials, according to the Chicago Tribune.The October spill was the second of the year for U.S. Steel, the first affecting the same waterway in April.According to the Tribune report, an inspector from the Indiana Department of Environmental Management visited U.S. Steel last month, when plant managers told the inspector they decided not to test for hexavalent chromium in the water.U.S. raw steel production for the week ending Dec. 9 jumped 4.3% compared with the same week last year, according to a report from the American Iron and Steel Institute (AISI).Free Sample Report: Our Annual Metal Buying OutlookDomestic raw steel production was 1,672,000 net tons, while it was 1,607,000 net tons in the week ending Dec. 9, 2016.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service