This Morning in Metals Section 232 Tariffs to Open ‘Pandora’s Box’gui yong nian/Adobe StockThis morning in metals news, the chairman of the Japan Iron and Steel Federation warns that U.S. tariffs on its steel imports could lead to retaliation, copper hit its five-month high and aluminum producer Norsk Hydro expects 2017 to present a balanced aluminum market.Benchmark Your Current Metal Price by Grade, Shape and Alloy: See How it Stacks UpThe world continues to wait for the Trump administration's announcement regarding the conclusion of its Section 232 investigation into steel imports. Most, however, predict that tariffs will be the remedy President Donald Trump chooses, a course of action which EU Trade Commissioner Cecilia Malmstrom in recent weeks said would lead to retaliatory measures from the EU.Japan has also joined the fray in warning of retaliation if tariffs are slapped onto steel coming into the U.S.In a report from Industry Week, Kosei Shindo, chairman of the Japan Iron and Steel Federation, told reporters Monday that other countries could respond with protectionism on products other than steel, opening Pandora's box.Copper continues its strong run, hitting a five-month high Tuesday, Reuters reported.Free Download: The July 2017 MMI ReportPositive news on the Chinese economy and a weak U.S. dollar contributed to the rise for copper.Earlier today, our Stuart Burns wrote about copper's big year to date.Norsk Hydro CEO and President Svein Richard Brandtzaeg said he expects a "largely balanced" global aluminum market this year."We see a global primary aluminium deficit in the quarter. This is driven by increasing deficit outside China. For the full year, we are maintaining our 4-6 percent annual aluminium demand growth outlook for 2017 and expect a largely balanced, global aluminium market," Brandtzaeg said in the aluminum producer's second-quarter results announcement.Hydro, which earlier this month announced the acquisition of Sapa, reported second-quarter earnings of NOK 2,930 million.Very interesting information!Why not inforce these tariffs we are already in a trade war if you don't see this you must be blind. China wants to monopolize steel they make 50% already and the way they are pumping it into the world is more like 80%. Every time 232 is mentioned and is halted China cranks up the water works to flood . 75000 US Steelworkers need this 25 CEO'S are pushing for it .Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service