This Afternoon in Metals Trump Still Expected to Impose Steel Tariffs, According to ExpertsThe U.S. Department of Commerce. qingwa/Adobe StockThis afternoon in metals news, experts say that despite the delay in the Section 232 investigation of steel imports, they still expect President Donald Trump to impose tariffs, U.S. steel production is up 2.9% in the year to date and copper and steel output from Kazakhstan rose significantly from January to July.The wait continues for the Trump administration's announcement of what it is going to do at the conclusion of its Section 232 investigation into steel imports.Benchmark Your Current Metal Price by Grade, Shape and Alloy: See How it Stacks UpThe investigation was launched in April, and Secretary of Commerce Wilbur Ross has 270 days to present President Donald Trump with a report (making for a January deadline).An announcement was expected to be made by the end of June, but that self-imposed deadline came and went without an announcement. However, despite the delay, some industry experts believe Trump still plans to impose tariffs, according to a report by Reuters.Trading partners around the world, including the European Union, in recent months have warned of the possibility of retaliatory measures should the U.S. move forward with tariffs (or a quota system, or a hybrid tariff-quota measure).A Trump administration official told Reuters the Section 232 review is active and is "still under the final stages of review within the administration."Per data released in the American Iron and Steel Institute's weekly report, U.S. raw steel production in the year to date is up 2.9% compared with the same time frame in 2016.Adjusted year-to-date production through Aug. 12 was 55,650,000 net tons, up 2.9 percent from the 54,106,000 net tons during the same period last year, according to the report.For the week ending Aug. 12, production was up 1% from the week ending Aug. 5, up to 1,780,000 net tons from 1,762,000 net tons the previous week.Output of copper and steel rose significantly from January to July in Kazakhstan compared with the same time frame in 2016, according to Reuters.Copper output rose 5.7% and steel output rose 10.1% for the first seven months of the calendar year.Free Download: The July 2017 MMI ReportMeanwhile, zinc output dropped 0.9%.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service