This Morning in Metals Eurofer Shows Optimism, Caution in Steel Forecastgui yong nian/Adobe StockThis morning in metals news, European steel association Eurofer predicted increased steel demand in its Monday forecast, but also sounded a cautionary note regarding the U.S. potentially imposing steel tariffs (as a product of the Department of Commerce's Section 232 investigation); Norwegian metals company Norsk Hydro inks a $3.2 billion deal to buy a 50% stake in aluminum products maker Sapa; and LME copper stabilized Monday after U.S. jobs report news.Benchmark Your Current Metal Price by Grade, Shape and Alloy: See How it Stacks UpEurofer, the European steel association, offered a mix bag of news in its Monday steel forecast.On the one hand, it predicted an uptick in demand for steel, according to Reuters. According to the report, the forecast predicts a 1.9% rise in apparent EU steel demand, to 159 million tons, up from a previously forecasted 1.3%.On the other hand, Eurofer sounded a warning note regarding the potential for "market distortions," including tariffs, like the ones the U.S. Commerce Department may impose on steel and aluminum imports at the conclusion of its Section 232 investigations."In particular, measures potentially stemming from the U.S. section 232 investigation may lead to a proliferation of disastrous global trade flow distortions," Eurofer director general Axel Eggert said in a statement quoted by Reuters.Norwegian metals firm Norsk Hydro, in a deal worth $3.2 billion, bought a 50% stake in aluminum products maker Sapa, Reuters reported Monday.Norsk Hydro's acquisition allows it to spread its business across the value chain -- the Norwegian firm makes primary aluminum from scratch, while Sapa presses, cuts and shapes it, according to the report.Sapa, which has 22,400 employees and in 2016 recorded sales of 53 billion crowns ($6.84 billion), has been jointly owned by Orkla and Hydro since 2013, according to Reuters.Copper prices stabilized Monday after news of a solid U.S. jobs report inspired optimism in a U.S. economic recovery, Reuters reported Monday.This follows June's news of expansion in Chinese manufacturing, which also buoyed prices by virtue of increased demand for the metal.Since late June, copper prices have been consolidating in the range of $5,800-$5,965, according to the report.For more on copper, come back to check out Irene Martinez Canorea's Copper MMI piece this afternoon, which will survey the month that was and market trends for the metal.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service