This Morning in Metals Proposed Law Could Offer Fewer Protections for U.K. Steel Industry than E.U. Regulations, Union WarnsAndrey Kuzmin/Adobe StackThis morning in metals news, a law proposed in the U.K. could have a negative impact on the domestic steel industry as the country moves forward with Brexit talks, steel production in the U.S. Great Lakes region has jumped to start the year, four firms have submitted resolution plans for Electrosteel Steels and the U.S. Department of Commerce announced affirmative final determinations in the antidumping duty investigations of imports of carbon and alloy steel wire rod from South Africa and Ukraine.Need buying strategies for steel in 2018? MetalMiner's Annual Outlook has what you need A U.K. bill that aims to institute trading provisions for after the U.K.'s exit from the European Union could prove to offer fewer protections than existing E.U. tariffs, members of the Community trade union warned, according to the BBC.Community union members wrote to Chancellor Philip Hammond, warning that the Customs Bill would not prove as strong as E.U. safeguards against antidumping already in place.In the letter, quoted by the BBC, the members wrote: "When the UK leaves the European Union we will of course need to set up our own way of preventing unfair trade or dumping of goods. We understand this Customs Bill is putting down the framework for that to happen. But as it is currently written, we fear it will not be effective."Steel production has gotten off to a fast start in the U.S.'s Great Lakes region, the Northwest Indiana Times reported.Production rose to 640,000 tons for the first week of 2018, constituting a 7.7% jump, the paper reported. Steel mills in the Great Lakes produced 594,000 tons of steel the previous week.Tata Steel, Vedanta and two other bidders are vying for the acquisition of Electrosteel Steels, which is currently involved in an insolvency resolution process, the Economic Times reported.Electrosteel was one of 12 companies sent to insolvency proceedings by the Reserve Bank of India, the Economic Times reported.The U.S. Department of Commerce announced this morning that it had made affirmative determinations in its antidumping investigation of carbon and alloy steel wire rod from South Africa and Ukraine.According to a department release, it determined that exporters from South Africa and Ukraine sold wire rod in the United States at 135.46-142.26% and 34.98-44.03% less than fair value, respectively.The petitioners in the case are companies from four states: Gerdau Ameristeel US Inc. (Florida), Nucor Corporation (North Carolina), Keystone Consolidated Industries (Texas) and Charter Steel (Wisconsin).Free Sample Report: Our Annual Metal Buying OutlookYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service