ThyssenKruppCracks in the steelGERHARD CROMME (pictured) surprised no one with the news on March 7th that he would step down at the end of the month. He has been the face of German steel for the past 24 years: twelve as chief executive of Krupp (which became ThyssenKrupp in 1999) and twelve as chairman of ThyssenKrupp's supervisory board. But his position became untenable after a series of scandals and investment failures on his watch. Most recently, on February 28th, competition officials raided ThyssenKrupp offices on fresh suspicions that the firm had been part of another steel price ring, this time involving sales to the auto industry. Last year ThyssenKrupp was fined EUR103m for colluding with others on the price of railway track.The company's misguided investments in two new steel plants in Brazil and America, prompting it to take a EUR5 billion loss in the last financial year, have also exasperated shareholders. A scandal involving expensive joyrides for journalists and workers' representatives had further suggested lack of grip at the very top.At a stormy shareholders' meeting in January, Mr Cromme apologised for mistakes and tardy action by the supervisory board, but he showed no sign of making an exit. ThyssenKrupp watchers concluded that he still had the support of Berthold Beitz, the 99-year-old eminence grise who runs the Alfried Krupp von Bohlen and Halbach Foundation, which is a dominant shareholder in the company. Mr Beitz accepted Mr Cromme's resignation "with great respect".It is not clear how this resignation will affect Mr Cromme's other big role as chairman of Siemens, the German conglomerate, which has also been controversial. Before he resigned as ThyssenKrupp's chairman, he had already lost his reputation as the pioneer of a cleaner corporate culture. He was the founding chairman of a government-sponsored commission on corporate governance, but failed to practice what he preached.There was no cooling-off period between his stints as chief executive and chairman of ThyssenKrupp--as recommended by the commission's own corporate-governance code. And at one time he had half a dozen supervisory-board mandates; the code recommends a maximum of three for anyone with an executive board position.Now, it seems, he is infringing another of the code's recommendations: that there should be timely succession planning. It is not clear who will succeed him as chairman. But no worries, the obliging Mr Beitz will take care of that: the foundation has the right to appoint three members of the supervisory board and generally calls the shots on deciding who will be chairman.