Undermined in the PhilippinesTHE typhoon season may have passed in the Philippines, but the country's investment climate is stormier than ever. Earlier this month the Supreme Court scrapped the deregulation of oil prices, raising worries among foreign investors that economic reforms may now stop. Then, on November 22nd, the Indigenous Peoples Rights Act (IPRA), which attempts to protect the Philippines' many tribal people, came into force. It has thrown the country's once-promising mining industry into disarray.Dozens of foreign and local mining firms were hoping, after years of strained negotiations, to sign a package of 70 exploration deals with the government in order to explore up to 81,000 hectares (315 square miles). The geology of the Philippines suggests that it is rich in minerals, especially gold and copper. But as far as exploration is concerned, in the words of Horacio Ramos, the government's director of mining, "We've hardly scratched the surface."Now comes the IPRA, which gives indigenous groups certain rights over ancestral domains. The problem is that the new law is fuzzy: it is not clear what constitutes either ancestral lands or indigenous communities, or indeed what rights the act really gives them. Mining executives say that the IPRA can be interpreted as giving indigenous communities the ownership of minerals on their land, even though that would conflict with the constitution, which says minerals are state-owned.The miners may have to wait for up to a year before the confusion is sorted out. That task is to be given to a new commission for indigenous peoples, which is to be established within three months. Given the history of past delays, together with the presidential election due next May, no one really believes any progress will be made until well after a new administration takes office.Meanwhile, the Philippine mining industry, which was supposed to have been liberalised in 1995 and opened up to foreign investment, is slipping into the dumps. Since 1995, only two companies--Western Mining and Arimco, both from Australia--have been granted exploration permits. Now, says Malcolm Norris, chairman of a group that represents 34 foreign mining companies in the Philippines, most projects are likely to be put on hold.The miners fear that if they start exploration they could lay themselves open to court action by the famously litigious Filipinos. In October, the Supreme Court backed a local group that had petitioned against the sale of the government-owned Manila Hotel, one of Asia's grandest old hostelries, to a Malaysian group, on the ground that preference should have been given in the sale of important state assets to locals. "As soon as a mining company begins exploration, a local community will claim tribal rights and the case will end up in the courts for 20 years," predicts Alex Magno, a professor at the University of the Philippines. Little wonder that foreign miners are putting away their shovels. 