US Steel Shipment Fall Again, AISI Backs Truck Limit IncreaseUS steel shipments decreased in July and a major steel trade association backed lifting limits on trucking tonnage in a new transportation bill.For the month of July, US steel mills shipped 7,591,897 net tons, a 2.1% decrease from the 7,758,087 nt shipped in the previous month and a 10.6% decrease from the 8,492,744 nt shipped in July 2014. Shipments on the year-to-date in 2015 are 51,572,190 nt, a 9.9% decrease vs. 2014 shipments of 57,269,890 nt for 7 months.Free Download: Latest Metal Price Trends in the MMI ReportA comparison of July shipments to the previous month of June shows the following changes:  cold rolled sheets, down 1%, hot rolled sheets, down 4% and hot-dipped galvanized sheets and strip, down 5%.The American Iron and Steel Institute applauded the introduction of a bill by Rep. Reid Ribble (R-WI), the Safe, Flexible, and Efficient Trucking (SaFE) Act, which enables states the flexibility of permitting six-axle trucks to carry up to 91,000 pounds.Thomas Gibson, AISI president and CEO, said, "With nearly 70% of all US freight tonnage moved by trucks and overall freight tonnage expected to grow to nearly 25% truck weight reform needs to be included in the surface transportation reauthorization legislation when it goes before the House this Fall. Like many manufacturers, the steel industry utilizes all modes of transportation to move goods, but steel products moved by truck can easily reach current federal weight limits before they maximize truck capacity. AISI has long-supported this legislation to improve efficiency and safety, and lower logistical costs."Free Sample Report: Our Monthly Metal Buying Outlook"We applaud Congressman Ribble for introducing this critical measure, which will reduce road wear, reduce greenhouse gas emissions, minimize bridge impact, make truck transportation safer, and preserve state and local control. We urge the House to include the language in any House transportation funding bill," Gibson concluded.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service