USITC Makes Final Affirmative Determination in Chinese Aluminum Foil CaseThe U.S. International Trade Commission (USITC) issued a final affirmative determination in the ongoing anti-dumping and countervailing duty investigation of Chinese aluminum foil.Buying Aluminum in 2018? Download MetalMiner's free annual price outlookThe Department of Commerce made its own final affirmative determination Feb. 27."The United States International Trade Commission (USITC) today determined that a U.S. industry is materially injured by reason of imports of aluminum foil from China that the U.S. Department of Commerce (Commerce) has determined are subsidized and sold in the United States at less than fair value," a USITC statement said.As a result, the Department of Commerce will soon issue anti-dumping duties ranging from 48.64 to 106.09% and countervailing duties ranging from 17.14 to 80.97%.The petitioner in the investigation was the Aluminum Association's Trade Enforcement Working Group, which launched the case in March 2017. In a release, the Aluminum Association called the ruling a win for U.S. foil producers and for "rules-based trade.""Today's decision is a victory not only for U.S. foil producers but also for the rules-based trading system," said Heidi Brock, president and CEO of the Aluminum Association. "When companies have confidence that our trade rules are being enforced they have the confidence to invest and grow. The ITC's determination will move the foil industry toward a level playing field, allowing domestic producers of aluminum foil to pursue investments in their operations - investments that will further strengthen their competitiveness."The Department of Commerce investigated 26 separate subsidy programs maintained by the government of China in the aluminum foil market, according to an Aluminum Association release on the USITC decision.Want to see an Aluminum Price forecast? Take a free trial!Imports of aluminum foil from China in 2016 were estimated at a value of $389 million, according to the Department of Commerce, while foil imports from China increased nearly 40% between 2014 and 2016.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service