Value of Raw Mineral Materials Produced by U.S. Mines Increases 3% in 2018According to a recent report from the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS), U.S. mines churned out $82.8 billion worth of minerals in 2018.Need buying strategies for steel? Request your two-month free trial of MetalMiner's OutlookThe 2018 total marked a 3% year-over-year increase from $79.7 billion in 2017, according to the report from the USGS National Minerals Information Center."The Mineral Commodity Summaries provide crucial, unbiased statistics that decision-makers and policy-makers in both the private and public sectors rely on to make business decisions and national policy," said Steven M. Fortier, director of the National Mineral Information Center, in a prepared statement. "Industries - such as steel, aerospace and electronics - processed nonfuel mineral materials and created an estimated $3.02 trillion in value-added products in 2018, which is a 6 percent increase over 2017."The report highlights the U.S.'s dependence on foreign sources for a number of minerals. According to the report, "imports made up more than half of U.S apparent consumption for 48 nonfuel mineral commodities, and the U.S. was 100 percent net import reliant for 18 of those."Of the 18 commodities for which the U.S. is totally reliant on imports, 14 were named on a critical minerals list designated in May 2018 by the U.S. Department of the Interior.The full list of critical minerals included: aluminum (bauxite), antimony, arsenic, barite, beryllium, bismuth, cesium, chromium, cobalt, fluorspar, gallium, germanium, graphite (natural), hafnium, helium, indium, lithium, magnesium, manganese, niobium, platinum group metals, potash, the rare earth elements group, rhenium, rubidium, scandium, strontium, tantalum, tellurium, tin, titanium, tungsten, uranium, vanadium, and zirconium.China topped the list of exporters of nonfuel minerals to the U.S., followed by Canada. As noted in our Rare Earths MMI series, the U.S. -- the whole world, in fact -- is largely dependent on China for rare earths elements, as China controls most of the sector.Unsurprisingly, when it came time for the Trump administration to roll out a finalized list of tariffs in September -- $200 billion worth in tariffs on Chinese goods, in addition to the $50 billion worth of tariffs imposed earlier in 2018 -- rare earths were left off the list.While it certainly is not enough to counterbalance China's dominance in the sector, the USGS report notes rare earth mining resumed in the U.S. last year for the first time since 2015, when Molycorp, owner of the Mountain Pass rare earths mine, declared bankruptcy. Mountain Pass, the U.S.'s only operating rare earths mine, was eventually sold to MP Mine Operations LLC for $20.5 million in 2017.Breaking down U.S. mine production further, U.S. industrial minerals production came in at a value of $56.3 billion last year (up 7% from 2017), while metal mine production checked in at an estimated $25.9 billion (down 4% from 2017).Crushed stone, construction sand and gravel accounted for 45% of industrial minerals production, at a value of $25.3 billion. Meanwhile, gold, copper, iron ore and zinc led the way in metal mine production.MetalMiner's Annual Outlook provides 2019 buying strategies for carbon steelA few other items of note from the USGS report:Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service