Washed out of AfricaPICTURE the perfect De Beers moment. After a romantic dinner in New York, the young banker reaches into his pocket. He has spent months' worth of his inflated salary at Tiffany's on a diamond engagement ring, as a token of love for his fiancee. But now picture the couple leaving, covered in red paint thrown by demonstrators screaming about her hand being tainted in blood. Such a confrontation has not happened--yet. But the De Beers diamond cartel is an obvious target for protesters. For over a century the company's bosses had no qualms about using whatever tactics were necessary to "mop up" diamonds, whether from disintegrating bits of the old Soviet Union or from war-torn bits of Africa, that threatened the cartel's grip on the market. Whenever a surge of gems threatened to reduce artificially high prices, De Beers used its financial might to scoop them up and keep them off the market. In recent months, though, the firm has closed its operations in war-torn bits of Africa, and vowed not to buy "conflict" diamonds on the open market. It has even started a certification scheme designed to show that its gems are clean. What is going on? One explanation is the "fur factor". Television images of wars in Sierra Leone and Congo, where diamonds play a crucial role in fuelling conflict, have roused the passions of consumers in Europe and in America. The New York Post recently ran a prominent photo of a horribly maimed child in Sierra Leone, suggesting that this is what buying diamonds led to. The G8 club of rich countries is contemplating regulating trade in diamonds more closely.But there is another force, more powerful than the fur factor, which is making De Beers's bosses change their approach: the fast-changing economics of their trade. Thanks to unfamiliar market-driven forces, the firm has had to rethink its business strategy. Its new approach, to be unveiled in early July, promises to set the company on a dramatically different course.Rather than spending a fortune mopping up surplus gems, the firm says it is keener to embrace other tactics, including being readier than in the past to cut production at its own mines. De Beers directly produces nearly half of the world's high-quality diamonds by value. The company is also more prepared to withhold gems in its stockpile from the market. If combined with tougher international controls on the origins of diamonds, De Beers's new approach could make it harder for African rebels, or the dodgy dealers who work with them, to find easy markets or get top prices. Even so, this new strategy carries clear risks for De Beers's control of the market. So why is the firm going this way? The answer is that it had little choice. The most dramatic wake-up call, says Gary Ralfe, its managing director, came with the collapse over the past two years in the firm's share price. As Asia's economic slump dragged the diamond market into a severe downturn, De Beers's shares plunged from a high of over $35 a share in mid-1997 to around $15 a share a year ago (see chart). Return on capital employed plunged to a miserable 7.5% in 1998.Thanks mainly to the extraordinary economic boom in America, the firm's sales have since rebounded. Sales of rough diamonds in 1999 topped $5.2 billion, 57% higher than the previous year, and they are still buoyant. Yet the company's share price has not rebounded in tandem. Indeed, most of the market value of De Beers is today accounted for by its holding in its conglomerate sibling, Anglo American. The implication is that, as with tobacco firms, the market takes a dim view of De Beers's underlying value. Over a quarter of De Beers's shareholders are now American institutional investors, and these "value investors" are clamouring for the firm to do better. The weak share price has also driven out talented managers, something that would have been unimaginable when the company was the pride of the South African economy. It is this intense spotlight on shareholder value, says Mr Ralfe, that explains his sweeping strategic review, conducted with help from Bain, an American management consultancy. The review concluded that De Beers should no longer be the default custodian of the market, cost be damned.Yet talk of an end to the firm's market manipulation, or of the break-up of its cartel, is premature. Nicky Oppenheimer, the chairman, insists that "this does not mean that De Beers is about to abandon the market to its own devices." The company remains committed to "minimising price volatility". Mr Ralfe himself asks rhetorically: "If the sky fell on top of us, would we start stockpiling? Perhaps. But I want rigorous financial analysis of the options first."What the review recognised is that a combination of controversy over conflict diamonds and the emergence of other big diamond producers (such as Canada's big Ekati mine) means that De Beers's role as custodian of the market has to change. The firm says it is no longer in its interests to act on its age-old instinct whenever there is a surge of diamonds: "Step in, buy them, hold them as long as necessary, and sell later." Simple economics, to which the cartel once thought itself immune, explains the change. The old approach worked only at enormous cost. At the beginning of 1999, De Beers had a stockpile of diamonds worth $4.8 billion; even after a stellar year, it is $3.9 billion. To afford more expensive forays into the open market, it has lines of credit for several billion dollars with nearly three dozen banks; even when it is not tapping them, it must pay for this privilege. Under pressure to cut costs, the company wants to slash its diamond stockpile to $2.5 billion or less--only three to five months' of sales--and keep it at that low level. That means that its ability to control prices must diminish over time. The real test of this strategy will come the next time the retail diamond market goes into cyclical downturn. When pressed on this, the usually unflappable Mr Ralfe lets down his guard: "Look, there is no textbook for what we are trying to do. We are making this up as we go along." But on one point he is steadfast: De Beers must do better for its shareholders. The key to this, he reckons, is the most radical bit of the new strategy: to kill the cyclicality of the diamond business. Rather than sit back and ride out the cycles of boom and bust in demand, as the firm has done patiently (and expensively) for decades, Mr Ralfe says that he now wants to "drive incremental demand". Over the past 50 years, diamond sales have grown at merely the rate of global economic output. Now, De Beers wants that to rise to more like 5-6% a year, in line with the sales of other luxury goods. To do that, says Tim Capon, a director of De Beers, requires a big boost in marketing, so that it can "give demand a swift kick in the pants." Previous efforts to boost demand were generic, though spectacularly succesful, exhortations to spend a few months' salary on an engagement ring. Now, bosses want sharper, more-targeted marketing campaigns. How can De Beers do this,when it is also under intense pressure to cut costs? One way, confide insiders, is to get the deadbeats of what one calls the "dysfunctional" diamond industry to share the burden. The firm sees lots of untapped resources among the traders, gem polishers and jewellery manufacturers who, at the moment, spend almost nothing on marketing. By organising co-operative advertising, De Beers thinks it can boost sales of its baubles at little cost. Its marketing department and its rough-gems group are also working together on campaigns to promote the sizes and varieties of gems that De Beers actually has in stock.The company wants to see spending on the industry's marketing efforts rise from the paltry 1% of sales to the levels of 10% or more that are typical of the luxury-goods industry. And this points to what may really be happening to this sleepy old South African mining group: bit by bit, it is transforming itself into a luxury-goods group. Mr Ralfe may deny this, saying that "as long as I'm around, branded retail will always remain a niche add-on to the firm's core strengths of mining and marketing rough gems." But some of Mr Ralfe's colleagues openly talk of such products as Gucci handbags and Montecristo cigars as their real competition. They also make no secret of their envy of luxury-goods companies' loftier earnings multiples. So will De Beers embrace branding? So far, it has merely toyed with the notion of etching its logo, invisible to the naked eye, into its gems; its promotion of branded millennium gems, for example, was a runaway success. But De Beers has, so far, resisted wholesale conversion to the idea. One reason is fear of annoying its traditional partners down the value chain, from cutters to retailers, who might see the change as a threat to their own, unbranded, gems. Mr Ralfe is adamant that De Beers will never enter the unfamiliar downstream business of cutting and polishing diamonds. Instead, it intends to cement and even modernise its age-old partnerships with its clients, replacing ad hoc, secret deals with open, long-term contracts. Doing so would make the company appear less like a secretive cartel. It would also improve relations with those bits of the industry that might otherwise be most threatened by any branding initiatives. But the changing dynamics of the diamond business are beginning to force the company's hand. Already, smaller rivals, from Australia's BHP to America's LKI, are pushing ahead with branding. How long can the industry's best-known name hold out? If De Beers decides to embrace branding, it may open entirely new markets for the stodgy company. "Why limit the De Beers brand to diamonds?" asks Mr Capon. "Why not watches, or handbags?" Why not, indeed? Indeed, if De Beers is really serious about shedding its old ways, why not sell a chunk of Anglo American and use the cash to buy a business that already sells such things: Gucci, for instance? The reply from Mr Capon is astonishing: "Well, we just might consider something like that." For those familiar with De Beers's conservatism, this is heady stuff. The decision by De Beers to transform itself from keeper of the diamond cartel to the biggest company in a more competitive diamond market may have been inevitable. As Mr Ralfe says, rising competition in both the mining and marketing of rough gems explains it. Yet it may create problems of its own. One is that an increased emphasis on retail markets will draw more attention from antitrust authorities, especially in America. At the moment, the company's directors cannot set foot in their biggest market for fear of arrest. De Beers tried recently to arrange a quiet meeting with American antitrust officials to discuss the situation, but was rebuffed. The day may well come when De Beers is forced by such difficulties to spin off its marketing from its mining arms. An even bigger risk is that, as its profile rises, it will become ever more vulnerable to consumer boycotts over bloodstained diamonds. As Mr Oppenheimer concedes, the demand for diamonds "can only be assured if the consumer retains his or her belief in the diamond as a symbol of love, purity and natural and enduring beauty...and untainted by conflict." This is what makes it so crucial for De Beers to wash its hands completely of conflict diamonds, and to push for concerted international action to regulate the trade in rough gems. The tougher the laws, the bigger the premium that a De Beers branded diamond, independently certified to be clean, might fetch. Otherwise assaults on bejewelled couples in New York may not remain merely the stuff of nightmares--and diamonds might become as unfashionable as fur. 