Week in Review China’s Falling Steel Exports; Coal Vs. Green; U.S. Relationships with China, Indiagui yong nian/Adobe StockBefore we head into the weekend, let's take a brief look back at some of the news from the world of metals this week:Earlier this week, our Stuart Burns wrote about the phenomenon of dropping Chinese steel exports:"As we noted in a piece yesterday reviewing the 232 probe, China's share of the U.S. import market for steel products has been falling for the last couple of years, mainly due to successful anti-dumping cases," Burns writes. "China no longer appears even in the top 10.So, what exactly is going on in China with respect to steel production and demand? Can we take it that Beijing's actions to tackle excess steel production have finally resolved China's deflationary impact on global steel markets?"Benchmark Your Current Metal Price by Grade, Shape and Alloy: See How it Stacks UpIn case you missed it on Monday, definitely give the story a read, especially as the Department of Commerce's Section 232 steel investigation results will be announced any day now.Also earlier this week, our Sohrab Darabshaw wrote about coal mine closures in India, partially a result of the growth of the renewable energy sector:"One estimate by the Energy and Resources Institute predicts if the cost of renewable energy and storage continue to fall, India may phase out coal power completely by 2050. Both solar and wind energy prices have been steadily decreasing over the last three years."In 2016-17, India added over 14,000 megawatts of new renewable energy power compared to almost 7,000 megawatts of new coal power capacity."Even so, the dependence on old energy sources won't disappear immediately. Yesterday, Indian Steel Minister Choudhary Birender Singh announced India will ramp up its steel production significantly. That uptick in production will need energy, and Singh indicated Coal India Ltd. will be asked to provide the coal needed to back the steel-production operations.In general, however, the interplay between older, dirtier sources of energy and clean, renewable energy sources is happening all over the world.Tensions have been building between the U.S. and China, as Reuters reported President Donald Trump was growing frustrated with China over its inability to rein in North Korea, while China expressed concern this week about the results of the Section 232 aluminum investigation.The Department of Commerce investigations into steel and aluminum imports were announced in April.Adding to the tension is China's disapproval of a planned $1.42 billion arms sale by the U.S. to Taiwan, which the Chinese embassy denounced in a statement, Reuters reported Friday.With many expecting tariffs or quotas (or a combination of the two) to be slapped on steel and aluminum imports (as an outcome of the 232 investigation), there's no doubt the tension between the U.S. and China will only increase.President Donald Trump met with Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi earlier this week in Washington D.C. Our Stuart Burns wrote about Modi's visit and what could be in store for the U.S.-India relationship throughout the Trump administration.During a joint press statement this week, Trump stressed India's status as the world's largest democracy and touted himself as a friend to India.However, he also touched on thornier issues, like trade barriers."I look forward to working with you Mr. Prime Minister to create jobs in our countries, to grow our economies, to create a trading relationship that is fair and reciprocal. It is important that barriers be removed to the export of U.S. goods into your markets and that we reduce our trade deficit with your country."The Grenfell Tower fire earlier this month could have been prevented if safe building materials had been used. Burns wrote about that and more in his piece on the tragedy.Free Download: The June 2017 MMI ReportYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service