West AfricaStill a rebel's best friendAT A huge open-pit diamond mine near the rebel-occupied town of Seguela in northern Cote d'Ivoire, labourers toil under a fierce sun as a rebel soldier circles the perimeter of the pit. "We have taken over the mine to provide security," says another rebel official, as a gang of miners looks on, bemused. Whatever the rebels' explanation for their presence at the lucrative Bobi mine, UN experts say that, in fact, mines like this one near Seguela are producing diamonds worth up to $23m that are being smuggled to Mali and Ghana, violating UN sanctions and helping to fund the rebels' war effort. Rebel use of the mines is another setback for attempts to control the flow of "conflict" or "blood" diamonds that have helped to fund some of the bloodiest wars in Africa, and particularly in countries such as Sierra Leone and Liberia. On September 29th the World Diamond Council, an influential industry group, suggested that all Ghanaian rough-diamond exports, worth $34m last year, be suspended to ensure that Ivorian diamonds were not being illegally exported too. Global Witness, a pressure-group, has said that the Kimberley Process, the certification procedure agreed in 2003 by 70-odd governments in partnership with the industry and some NGOs and without which countries cannot legally import or export diamonds, now risks becoming "little more than a paper-pushing exercise". And if all this were not bad enough for the diamond industry, it is bracing itself for yet more bad publicity: the release of the film "Blood Diamond", starring Leonardo DiCaprio as a diamond-smuggling mercenary in Sierra Leone's 1991-2002 civil war, when rebels hacked off the limbs of their victims in bloody battles to control the country's diamond-producing areas.The self-regulating Kimberley Process has failed to interrupt the myriad diamond-trading networks that operate across the loose borders of west Africa. In Sierra Leone, for instance, official exports last year stood at about $140m, up from a paltry $1.2m in 1999. The Kimberley Process may have encouraged many diamond miners to sell to authorised dealers, but experts believe that between $30m and $160m-worth of diamonds are still smuggled out of the country each year. Meanwhile, an unknown quantity of diamonds is smuggled into Sierra Leone from neighbouring countries, for certification by the Kimberley Process. Nor is Sierra Leone's diamond industry benefiting its people as it should. In a country where corruption was widely blamed for the onset of war, the arrest of the son of the mineral-resources minister on suspicion of diamond-trafficking is a worrying sign. The government has resisted use of a digital-mapping system that could improve its poorly administered concession-licensing. Over 2,000 small licences, some of them fronts for government officials, go virtually unmonitored; the system seems incapable of picking out illegal dealers and agents. Meanwhile, the government collects only an estimated $7m from licences, royalties and taxes on diamonds. While Sierra Leone struggles to control its diamond sector, neighbouring Liberia, also recovering from civil war, complains that it is being unfairly punished for its slow implementation of Kimberley Process recommendations. "This country is desperately in need of revenue and illicit mining will continue, you cannot control it completely," says Eugene Shannon, Liberia's new minister of mines. Exploration companies claim there are significant deposits to exploit (thereby helping to replenish the government's coffers), but they must instead wait for the lifting of UN sanctions, which the Security Council has just extended. The minister's attitude annoys campaigners wanting more effective curbs on conflict diamonds. Liberia's government needs all the money it can get. 