What nextBright angelic millsMANUFACTURERS are coming under growing pressure to take responsibility for the life cycle of their products. This involves an obligation to consider all the energy, environmental and health effects of every stage, from materials extraction to production, distribution and, eventually, recycling or disposal. As materials become more complex, that is becoming trickier.The traditional way of gauging what effects a new material will have on the wider world is to go by the elements. If something has lead in it, for instance, it is probably not good for you. If it has a bit of manganese, it is probably safe. "That is so old-fashioned," says Berkeley's Mr Ceder. "Very often what these things do to your body depends on the form, not the chemistry."That makes nanoparticles particularly difficult. A lot of research is being done on their environmental and health implications, but much of it is inconclusive. A big five-year study of nanoparticles led by the Swiss National Science Foundation is due to be published in 2016. One example of its work, from Australia, illustrates the concerns.Being a highly developed region, South Australia gets plenty of nanoparticles in products, some of which are washed into the drainage system. It is a dry place, so much of the wastewater is recycled, and treated sewage is used to fertilise fields. That allowed researchers from the Swiss Federal Laboratories for Materials Science and Technology to study the area as something of a closed system. From field and water deposits, they calculated the amounts of four nanomaterials that ended up in the environment every year: 54 tonnes of nano titanium dioxide (used in sunscreens); 10 tonnes of nano zinc oxide (found in cosmetics); 2.1 tonnes of carbon nanotubes (hollow tubes used instead of fibres in some composites); 180 kilograms of nano silver (for anti-bacterial use); and 120kg of fullerenes, another nano form of carbon, made up of hollow spheres known as "buckyballs".Looking for the perfect LEDThe final destination of these particles varied. The nano carbons remained embedded in the parts they came in, which ended up in rubbish dumps. The zinc oxide and silver were chemically converted into normal compounds in sewage-treatment plants, so did not seem to present a risk. But the nano titanium oxide from sunscreens went walkabout. Just over 5% ended up in the sea, the rest on fields. In its normal form titanium dioxide is not toxic (it is used in toothpaste as well as sunscreen), but the researchers say they do not know what the long-term effects of the nano versions will be, especially in high concentrations.Certain nanoparticles undoubtedly have nasty effects. Some LEDS use quantum dots--tiny crystals which when excited by an external light source glow brightly, a process called luminescence. This produces richer lighting and brighter colours in LED televisions and other displays. The dots, though, are often made from a toxic cadmium compound. That provides a commercial incentive to come up with safer materials.Nanoco, a firm based in Manchester, has developed cadmium-free quantum dots. The Dow Chemical Company has licensed the technology to make dots at a new factory in South Korea. And Prashant Sarswat and Michael Free of the University of Utah have made quantum dots out of carbon obtained from food waste. This is put into a solvent and heated under high pressure. The process still needs to be scaled up, but as the raw ingredients are free and relatively safe, the idea has promise.For larger items, the end-of-life problems are just as challenging--and rather more visible. Both Airbus and Boeing have programmes for recycling their carbon-fibre aircraft. In that industry at least the numbers are limited to a few thousand, but if carmakers were to adopt carbon fibre on a larger scale, millions of old carbon-bodied cars would eventually have to be disposed of. In some cases the material can be shredded and used in lower-grade components.Recycling exotic materials might become a necessity. Some elements are expensive and hard to find; they may come from only a handful of countries, such as China, which could restrict supply. Others, including some rare earths, are not found in large quantities and are hard to mine. Such substances are being increasingly used in electric and hybrid cars. As these become more widespread, new methods of dismantling and recovering materials will have to be found.Marion Emmert and H.M. Dhammika Bandara at Worcester Polytechnic Institute in Massachusetts have developed a new and energy-efficient way to extract rare-earth elements from electric cars, in particular neodymium, dysprosium and praseodymium. They sliced up and shredded the motor and other drive components from an all-electric Chevrolet Spark and used a two-stage chemical-extraction method to separate the rare earths and other useful materials. The technology, they say, could be used for other products that contain motors and magnets, such as wind turbines and medical imaging equipment.Some firms use a process called life-cycle assessment (LCA) to work out environmental impacts. "The idea is to evaluate, cradle to grave, a product or service," says Christian Lastoskie, an expert in the field at the University of Michigan. LCA used to be carried out when a product had been on the market for a while and plenty of data were available. Now it can be done in advance with computer modelling. That means making and testing a number of assumptions about a new material or process, but the analysis can be a useful guide to possible environmental concerns and help a company with its selection of materials, Mr Lastoskie explains.One project he has worked on, with backing from Sakti3, was a comparison of the life cycle of conventional lithium-ion batteries and solid-state ones. The results, published in 2014 in the Journal of Cleaner Production, suggested that even after allowing for uncertainties about the properties of the cells and the efficiency of the process used to make them, the use of solid batteries in electric vehicles would bring down energy consumption and reduce global warming.All this points to the conclusion that manufacturing will become ever more complex and that the days of "me-too" factories, making similar products in much the same way, are numbered. Processes such as 3D printing make economies of scale irrelevant, allowing low-volume production and rapid customisation. As labour costs shrink in relation to total production costs, there is less pressure to move production to low-wage countries. That does not mean foreign companies will give up making things in China, but that more of the things they make there will be for the Chinese.With computing costs falling all the time, being able to model the manufacturing process and the life cycle of a new material opens up markets to new entrants with new ideas. Only a decade ago it was widely thought that the world's car industry would consolidate into less than half a dozen groups because the barriers to entry were so high. Now new carmakers are appearing everywhere; not just Tesla and, possibly, Apple, but also many small, specialist ones such as Local Motors.Big companies, too, will increasingly compete by using exclusive recipes for new materials and customised production techniques. "If you just do a great design and use a manufacturing process which everyone else can use, you will run out of steam," says Mr Idelchik at GE Research. "But if you have a proprietary manufacturing process which applies to proprietary materials, you are creating a long-lasting competitive differentiation."Mr Idelchik is not alone in that view. BMW's factory in Leipzig uses standard industrial equipment and robots. What makes it special is the company's intimate knowledge of exactly how its materials are made and how to control the processes that turn them into cars. This goes to the heart of materials science. "We think we are pretty much ahead of our competitors because we have the complete process and material development in our hands," says BMW's Mr Kranz.In future more firms will need to be on top of their materials. The days of trial and error are coming to an end as powerful research tools deliver scientific data of unprecedented depth. The tumbling cost of computer power makes that information available to companies of all sizes just as new production process, such as 3D printing, transform the economics of manufacturing into something lighter and swifter.Mastering the greater complexity of materials, as well as their design, engineering, production, supply-chain and life-cycle management, will require new skills and plenty of entrepreneurial talent. It may attract more people into an industry that is still trying to shake off an image of dark satanic mills. Manufacturing is entering a new age. Edison would have heartily approved.