ZambiaBrighter days in the copperbeltSTARING into the Nchanga open-cast copper mine can make you dizzy. It is one giant hole: 500 metres deep and almost five kilometres (three miles) long. But it is not as big as the hole that Zambia's state-run copper industry used to leave in the national accounts. By the late 1990s, the mines, once the motor of the country's economy, were losing millions of dollars each month. This was not simply because of low copper prices: production plummeted from over 700,000 tonnes a year in the 1970s, shortly after nationalisation, to about a third of that in 2000. Mismanagement was largely to blame. But last year the mines were privatised. Recovery began. The richest pits were sold to Anglo American, the South African (but London-listed) mining giant that originally owned them. Some Zambians raged that this was tantamount to bringing back colonialism. Donors fret that the state copper company was looted in the run-up to privatisation. But since the sale was completed, new investment has sparked a boom in Zambia's copperbelt. When the men from Anglo returned, they found rusting machinery, lax safety standards and cooling towers that spewed sulphurous fumes over the surrounding countryside. Of the seven big mechanical shovels at Nchanga, only two or three worked. The rest had been cannibalised for spare parts. As for graft and mismanagement, Tim Wadeson, the head of Konkola Copper Mines, Anglo's partly-owned Zambian subsidiary, tactfully talks of a lack of money leading to a "culture of short-cuts". And as the computers were generations out of date, proper financial controls were difficult.Anglo expects to return the mines to profitability this year, and to bring environmental and safety standards in line with Zambian law by 2003. Meanwhile, local contractors enjoy the novel experience of actually being paid. A cluster of new restaurants and guest houses has popped up to feed and shelter the new influx of engineers and consultants. Unemployment is still dire, but the sale of the mines has probably dented it. Several thousand mine employees were laid off shortly before privatisation, but thousands have also been hired since by contractors. In addition, countless drivers, waiters, caddies, shop assistants and clerks owe their jobs to the new investment that privatisation has brought to the copperbelt. Largely because of new investment in the mines, the Zambian economy as a whole is expected to grow by more than 5% this year, a much-needed boost after years of uncertainty. 