ZambiaSelling the family copperAFTER years of procrastination by a government supposedly committed to privatisation, the sale of Zambia's three main copper mines, the biggest asset of this desperately poor country, seems near completion. But if the deal eventually goes through in January, Anglo American, the original owners of many of Zambia's mines, will pay only $90m for three mines in one of the richest copper deposits in the world. Last year, Zambia turned down an offer worth nearly twice as much.Not surprisingly, the sale is controversial in Zambia, where copper is still the leading export. Zambia's rapid economic growth in the 1960s and early 1970s was copper-bottomed. Thousands found jobs, homes and schools in the copperbelt, turning Zambia into Africa's most urbanised society. Many feel the indignity of selling off this precious asset for so little. The state-run media have accused Anglo American of manipulating a deal that leaves the nation empty-handed. Many Zambians share this sentiment, but they also know that the government is to blame for the sad state of the mines.As an object lesson in how not to privatise, the sale of Zambia Consolidated Copper Mines (ZCCM) is exemplary. When the current government came to power in 1991, ending one-party rule, the mines were already bankrupt. The boom years, when both price and production of copper were high, had long since gone. Suffering from under-investment and corruption, ZCCM was losing millions of dollars a year. But instead of moving quickly to rid itself of this cumbersome albatross, the government dithered. Many suspected that President Frederick Chiluba, a former trade unionist whose power-base was in the copperbelt, was unwilling to upset his supporters. The best offer came in 1998, when a consortium of British, American, Canadian and South African companies bid $130m, and also agreed to pay off $35m of the company's debts. But Mr Chiluba made it known that he thought the offer was scandalously low, and negotiations stalled. This was a terrible mistake. The copper price nose-dived and suddenly no one was interested in African copper mines--except Anglo American. Throughout the whole debacle, the company has played the part of coy maiden, keeping the Zambian government guessing and pretending indifference. At one point, it flirted with a Chilean mining company, Codelco, as a partner, before eventually saying it would take the risk of getting into bed with the Zambian government alone. Donor countries, at least, are delighted. They got fed up with Zambia paying some $6m a month to keep the mines going, while the donors were expected to fork out to keep the government going. Last year, with patience exhausted, they withheld balance-of-payments support, citing the failure to privatise ZCCM as the reason. If the deal now goes through, it could stimulate new interest and new investment in Zambia, putting the country on track to qualify for debt relief. But in the short term, ordinary Zambians must expect more pain. Thousands of miners will lose their jobs in the approach to privatisation. The government has offered to retrain some of them as farmers, but many miners lost touch with their rural roots generations ago. Faced with the prospect of becoming peasants again, they ask what progress has been made in 35 years of Zambian independence. 