Zinc Buyers Accuse Glencore, Pacorini of Driving Up PricesToday in metals, a federal judge ruled that a zinc price-fixing lawsuit against Glencore and its New Orleans warehouse unit can move forward. Chinese giant Baosteel has cut prices for July deliveries as it feels the effects of heavy U.S. tariffs.Executives at a metals warehouse firm owned by commodities group Glencore allegedly ordered workers to falsify documents in New Orleans to manipulate the zinc market, according to a complaint filed by zinc purchasers in a U.S. Federal Court. On Monday, a U.S. judge in Manhattan allowed a private antitrust lawsuit to go forward against two units of Anglo-Swiss Glencore Plc.Two-Month Trial: Metal Buying OutlookThe suit accuses Glencore and its Pacorini Metals USA warehouse company of trying to monopolize the market for special high grade (SHG) zinc, driving up its price.Her 62-page decision cited allegations made in the complaint filed by zinc purchasers alleging that Pacorini Metals USA created false bills of lading, which are receipts given by transporters confirming shipment of goods. U.S. District Judge Katherine Forrest in Manhattan said that the zinc purchasers had alleged sufficient facts for the case to go forward.China's biggest listed steelmaker, Baoshan Iron & Steel (Baosteel), has cut its main steel product prices for July delivery, the company said in a statement on Monday.Free Download: The May 2016 MMI ReportPrices for hot-rolled coil and cold-rolled coil were lowered by $30.37 (200 yuan) and $27.32 (180 yuan) per metric ton, respectively, according to the statement.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service