A big takeover bid in the fertiliser businessA fertile field for BHPFEEDING the world is a noble ambition. For BHP Billiton, the world's biggest mining company, the profits to be made from enriching the soil are an appetising prospect too. On Tuesday August 17th news emerged that PotashCorp (formerly Potash Corporation of Saskatchewan), itself the world's largest fertilisers firm, had rejected a $38.6 billion takeover bid from BHP. The mining giant owns Jansen, a deposit of potash (an important fertiliser feedstock) close to PotashCorp's own mines, and had been intending to invest heavily in potash anyway. But BHP has also been mulling recently how to make best use of a robust balance-sheet, the result of voracious Chinese appetite for metals over the past few years, and of canny management that saw BHP weather the credit crunch and economic downturn better than its competitors.World demand for potash has been growing steadily if not spectacularly for some years as a growing world population has made ever greater demands on the productivity of arable land. This growth is forecast to continue at some 5.5% a year. But in 2009 demand for potash sagged along with the global economy. Prices are picking up but PotashCorp accuses BHP of opportunism in attempting to take advantage of its depressed valuation, even though BHP's offer represents a 16% premium over the company's closing share price on Monday.With a dearth of other big dealmaking opportunities in mining, BHP may be right to deploy its financial might in boosting its potash business, even if growth is unspectacular now. China and India, both booming economies, are big importers of fertiliser, and arable land in China in particular is of poor quality. As both countries get richer a greater appetite for meat could boost fertiliser demand considerably. It requires a great deal more grain to fatten animals then to feed people directly. And this could well mean fat profits for BHP in years to come.Don't read too much into the recent rise in wheat pricesWhy the fertiliser business is becoming more attractive (Feb 2010)