A governor's election in SiberiaReplacing LebedIT IS like Brobdingnag without the giants. Four times the area of France, and source of a fifth of the world's nickel and two-fifths of its platinum, Russia's entire Krasnoyarsk krai, or region, has only about as many inhabitants as Boston--and despite their land's vast natural wealth, they are as poor as church mice. "Russia in miniature," a former governor called it. A place of such proportions needs a leader to match. Alexander Lebed, the charismatic former general who ran Krasnoyarsk for four years, was a big man all right, but not much of an administrator. He died in a helicopter accident in April, and 14 people are in the race for his job. The first round of polling is scheduled for September 8th.The favourite to win is Alexander Uss, a jurist who is the speaker of the regional assembly, having been one of Lebed's sharpest critics. He plays on the popular distrust of outsiders coming in to run the krai. Challenging him for the same voters is Pyotr Pimashkov, a local party hack, and mayor of the capital. Alexander Khloponin, in close third place, could not be more different. A clever fresh-faced 37-year-old who arrived in the region only in 1996 as boss of the giant Norilsk Nickel mining company, he now governs the northerly province of Taimyr, which contains the company town of Norilsk.All know that they need to put Krasnoyarsk's resources to work more effectively. Metals are mined and wood is cut, but they are usually exported for processing and manufacturing, leaving the krai bereft of local industry. Taxes from Norilsk Nickel's mines provide nearly 70% of the regional administration's income. Depressed world metal prices, plus a poor economic policy and political instability under Lebed, mean that this year's revenues will be far lower than projected--perhaps by as much as 40%.There is less interest in the candidates' policies, however, than in their backers. Mr Khloponin hopes to reduce Norilsk Nickel's influence by making the krai less dependent on it for its budget. But few believe this, not just because of the size of the company he used to run but also because it still gives him a hefty pay-cheque. On the other hand, Mr Uss's supporters, though broader-based, include big companies such as Russian Aluminium, which owns huge smelters in the region, and Yukos, an oil enterprise. They also include Anatoly Bykov, a wheeler-dealer businessman who recently incurred a suspended prison sentence for conspiracy to murder (though he is so popular that he was elected to the local assembly even while in jail in Moscow, awaiting trial). Mr Pimashkov does not have such powerful support, but at the last minute, he was almost suspended from the race on suspicions that he had broken campaign rules.Locals, however, seem not to worry much about such issues. "Of course they will have their own interests; the important thing is that they think about the krai's interests in parallel, not in second place," says Evgenia Bukharova, dean of the state university's economics faculty. A bigger concern is how they will get on after a generally acrimonious campaign. The winner will still have to deal with the losers, who will return to their current public posts. They will have to work hard to restore harmony--or else, as in Lebed's day, political infighting could make it even more difficult for the region to find the investment it needs.