A heavy tollSHORT of shining a message on to the Kremlin domes, there are few better ways of attracting attention in Russia than a billboard on Kutuzovsky Prospect. The main road from Moscow's lushest suburbs to the city centre is packed morning and evening with the cars--a black Mercedes with blue light and siren is the vehicle of choice--of those who run Russia (or own it, which comes to much the same thing).For a couple of thousand dollars (chicken-feed to a biznesman) you can wish your mistress happy birthday, insult a rival--or lobby the government. In recent weeks a flurry of new billboards has been urging passing motorists to "forbid tolling--stop exploiting Russia." Now the other side has fought back with "forbid tolling--bankrupt Russia."Russians unfamiliar with the aluminium industry (meaning almost everyone) will find the battle of billboards mystifying. Some even wonder if it is not a teaser for some new western product.The reality is more prosaic. Most of Russia's aluminium plants operate by tolling, meaning that they rent out capacity to third parties, who deliver ore and take back metal. Although this has kept Russia's aluminium industry afloat, the finances are dubious. Managers can be paid a nominal sum inside Russia for their plant's services, with a fatter fee going to a no-questions-asked bank in Aruba, Cyprus, or New York.Russia's government has repeatedly tried to ban tolling; the latest date for its abolition is the end of this year. This should increase the industry's declared profits, and thus raise the tax take by some $260m, officials say. A prime supporter of the change is Siberian Aluminium, a large Russian company which says it has the working capital to embrace the new system (cynics say that an even bigger plus is the damage its rivals would suffer). Its ambitious billionaire boss, Oleg Deripaska, is believed to be behind the billboards (a coy aide says simply that "we support the guys who do it"). The opponents include the prominent Swiss-based (but Russia-linked) Trans World Group, which says that a ban on tolling is impractical, because Russian firms cannot be sure of always having the hard currency to pay for the continuous supply of imported ore they need. The firm also questions whether banning the practice, which is common in some other countries, would be compatible with trade treaties signed by Russia. Try fitting that on a billboard.