A new gold standardCECIL RHODES, founder of Gold Fields, one of South Africa's oldest mining companies, must be turning in his grave. On Monday October 18th Harmony, the country's largest producer of gold, confirmed rumours that it was offering 1.275 of its own shares for every one of Gold Fields'. If accepted by Gold Fields' shareholders, the deal would create the world's largest producer of gold with an output of 7.5m ounces a year.In making an initial bid for 34.9% of Gold Fields, which the company has rejected, Harmony is also doing more than shaking up the mining establishment in Johannesburg. By teaming up with Norilsk, a Russian mining company which already owns 20% of Gold Fields, Harmony has set off a chain reaction that is sending ripples throughout the mining world.Because of that, the stakes are high. In August, Gold Fields announced plans to sell its mining interests outside South Africa to Iamgold of Canada in a deal that would give the South African company 70% of a new and enlarged venture. Harmony is contesting the deal. It says that its own offer, which puts a price tag of just over $8 billion on Gold Fields, would give the company's shareholders "tangible value" today, not just the possibility of it in the future should the venture with Iamgold go ahead. Harmony is not the only opponent of the deal with Iamgold. In March, Vladimir Potanin, a Russian tycoon who controls Norilsk, bought a stake in Gold Fields as a way of diversifying his own interests outside Russia. If the deal with Iamgold goes ahead, Mr Potanin's interest in Gold Fields' international assets, which include mines in a dozen or so countries around the world, would be diluted.Indeed, Norilsk currently has the worst of both worlds. With only 20% of Gold Fields, the company cannot stop the deal with Iamgold going ahead--to block it, 50% of Gold Fields' shareholders would have to say no; nor, at the moment, does Norilsk have a large enough shareholding to influence events in its favour. With Gold Fields' annual meeting due in November, the deal with Iamgold could be sealed before the end of the year. And with only $1.2 billion in the bank at the last count, Norilsk cannot bid for Gold Fields on its own. Under South Africa's rules against capital flight, outside bidders must pay for acquisitions with cash, not with their own shares.So it was probably only a matter of time before Norilsk decided to team up with a fellow bidder such as Harmony. Yet, even at a premium of 29% to the average price of Gold Fields' shares during the past month, Harmony's offer is not a knock-out blow. The value of its own shares dropped by nearly 8% when the bid was unveiled; and the price of Gold Fields' stock rose by just over 4%. So not only is its prey becoming more expensive; what Harmony has to offer is also diminishing in value. Gold Fields needs to do some sort of a deal if it is to prosper. Though the price of gold has crept up of late, the value of the rand has risen too, making South African exporters less competitive: since the beginning of 2003, the South African currency has risen by about 30% against the American dollar. As Chris Thompson, Gold Fields' chairman, recently told shareholders, this means that "the once indomitable South African gold-mining industry is struggling to achieve profitability despite a gold price that hovers around $400 an ounce." On Wednesday, the price rose to a six-month high of nearly $424. Without a strong performance from Gold Fields' operations outside South Africa, said Mr Thompson, last year's results would have been "quite poor". As it was, the company's net income for the year to the end of June 2004 was R768m ($111m), down significantly from the previous year's figure of R2.95 billion.Fortunately for Mr Thompson, the price of gold is more likely to continue rising over the next few months than it is to fall. This is because supply is expected to drop marginally while demand is likely to remain strong. Though consumption of gold for jewellery in India and the Middle East, both large consumers of the yellow metal, has fallen during the past three years, demand from investors is likely to rise as international tensions continue. Gold is seen by moneymen as a haven in times of geopolitical turmoil.Harmony's aim in bidding for Gold Fields is plain enough: it wants to get its hands on more of South Africa's gold deposits despite the rising cost of producing the stuff there. Norilsk's motives are also fairly clear: Mr Potanin would like to get a foothold outside Russia in case the government there decides to bully metals producers as it has done Yukos, the country's largest oil company. The question is whether relations between Harmony and Norilsk will remain, well, harmonious in the months to come. If they do, the two firms stand a reasonable chance of succeeding in their quest. 