Alcoa Challenges CFTC’s Intervention in LME Aluminum Warehouse DisputeA major aluminum producer challenged a US regulator's authority to intervene in a foreign warehousing dispute and another nation placed tariffs on Chinese silicon this week.Alcoa Inc. on Monday challenged a federal commodities regulator's authority to intervene in the contentious overhaul of the London Metal Exchange's warehouse policy that has caused an unprecedented drop in aluminum prices.FREE Download: Last Chance for the May MMI(r) Report.In March, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission deferred a decision about the LME's 2012 application to be registered as a "foreign board of trade," telling the exchange it should do more to address concerns about long waiting queues.Alcoa has questioned whether the agency even has the legal authority to intervene, and on Monday filed a request under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) to find out what had caused the CFTC to delay its decision on the LME."Our goal is to learn the extent to which the CFTC has engaged in substantive discussions with the London Metal Exchange," Alcoa said in a statement. "The CFTC should examine any LME aluminum contract performance issues only through an open, inclusive and transparent process where all affected market participants have the opportunity to present their views," it said.The CFTC declined to comment.Australia has issued an anti-dumping notice on silicon metal exported from China after an investigation into dumping and subsidization.Following the investigation the Australian Government Anti-Dumping Commission set dumping and subsidy margins for Hua'an Linan Silicon Industry Co. Ltd., and Guizhou Liping Linan Silicon Industry Co. Ltd. at 18.3% and 6.3% respectively. Both companies will be subject to an effective rate of combined interim countervailing duty and interim dumping duty of 12%, according to a statement by the MOC trade remedy and investigation bureau.The commission announced dumping margin and subsidy margin for "uncooperative, and all other exporters" of 27% and 37.6% respectively, with an effective rate of combined interim countervailing duty and interim dumping duty of 58.3%.Australia began its investigation in February last year after allegations of dumping and subsidization of silicon metal goods that originated from China with a total value of $12.78 million dollars, according to the MOC statement.Free Download: MetalMiner's Top Service Centers GuideYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service