Alcoa Posts Strong Q2 But Dampens Outlook for Rest of the YearAluminum firm Alcoa Corporation reported its second-quarter earnings Wednesday, with some numbers showing the impact of current market trends and forces.Buying Aluminum in 2018? Download MetalMiner's free annual price outlookThe Pittsburgh-based firm reported $3.6 billion in Q2 revenue and $904 in adjusted earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA). The firm's Q2 EBITDA marked a 34% increase from Q1's $653 million."Higher alumina and aluminum prices, as well as a stronger U.S. dollar, were the primary factors driving this sequential increase," Alcoa's Q2 earnings report states. "Somewhat offsetting these factors were unfavorable mix and higher costs for energy, raw materials, and maintenance activities."However, the firm downgraded its annual EBITDA forecast from $3.5 billion and $3.7 billion down to between $3.0 billion and $3.2 billion "due to current market prices and other factors.""Market pricing continued to be favorable in the second quarter and drove a 38 percent sequential increase in adjusted EBITDA excluding special items," Alcoa President and CEO Roy Harvey said. "These market tailwinds also facilitated greater progress on our strategic priorities to reduce complexity in our Company, drive returns from our assets, and address pension liabilities to strengthen the balance sheet for the long-term."The firm attributed the lower forecast to "current market prices, tariffs on imported aluminum, increased energy costs, and some operational impacts.""While markets and trade dynamics are likely to remain fluid, we will continue to be focused on driving value for our stockholders through all market cycles," Harvey added.On the operations side, Alcoa reported that the third potline at its Warrick Operations in India will be restarted by the end of the year. Two of three potlines were restarted, and the third line due for a restart was shut down in May due to a power outage.Alcoa estimates the restart of the third potline during the second half of the year to cost an estimated $5 million. In addition, once the partial restart schedule is completed at Warrick, the company estimates the smelter's annual operating capacity will be 161,000 metric tons.Want to see an Aluminum Price forecast? Take a free trial!Alcoa closed Wednesday at $47.96/share on the New York Stock Exchange. The stock's 52-week high came on April 18 ($62.35), buoyed by the then still relatively new Section 232 tariff on aluminum (and steel).Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service