Aluminium can—but will itIF YOU were to create the car industry from scratch today, you just might build your vehicles out of aluminium. Cars made of it can be, perhaps surprisingly, safer and stronger than those made of steel. It is much lighter, so cars deliver better performance. Its weight also makes cars greener: they use less petrol and emit fewer greenhouse gases; like drinks cans, they are easy to recycle.The snag is price. Aluminium has long been more costly to buy and to work than steel. But things are changing. Aluminium prices have plunged to about $1,300 a ton, from nearly $2,500 a ton in 1988, while the high-quality steel used in cars sells for about $500 a ton. Given that you need only about half as much aluminium for each vehicle, it is no longer such a relative extravagance. Years of research have also led to simpler processes and new alloys, making aluminium cheaper to work.Yet a considerable obstacle remains: the volatility of aluminium prices on the open market. That is why a deal announced on November 9th by General Motors and Alcan, the world's second-largest aluminium producer, could matter. The multi-billion-dollar contract will guarantee the world's largest car maker a stable price and a fixed supply of aluminium for ten years. Though neither firm will reveal details, it is believed that hedge funds will assume the risk of price fluctuations over that period."We are now one step closer to the aluminium-intensive vehicle," declares one GM official. To get there, the firm says it will increase aluminium usage by at least 7% a year. Alcan is eager to help. Its scientists will co-operate with GM counterparts to speed research. Earlier this year, Alcan even struck a novel "operational stability" deal with its unions, which promise no strikes for 18 years.GM is just one of a number of car makers that are experimenting with aluminium. Ford, its chief domestic rival, has long worked with Alcan, and plans to bring out an aluminium vehicle soon. Audi, a subsidiary of Germany's Volkswagen, has collaborated with Alcoa, the world's biggest aluminium company, to introduce its A-8, an aluminium luxury car. Audi even plans to take on the mass market in two years with the Al-2, a small aluminium car weighing only 800kg and travelling 78 miles on a gallon (33km per litre) of petrol.Is this the Age of Aluminium? Not quite. Aluminium still faces competition from materials such as plastic, nylon and magnesium. The most persistent rival, however, may be steel itself. Car makers have enormous sunk costs in plants, processes and skills that are geared around steel. The real price of steel has dropped steadily in the past two decades. Earlier this year, a steel-industry consortium working with Porsche, a German sports-car firm, unveiled its "ultralight steel auto-body", which could reduce a car's weight by a fifth. Trusty, rusty old steel is not going away anytime soon. 