AluminiumAltogetherPERHAPS not in the vanguard of fashion, but at least going with the trend, the world's aluminium companies are merging. On August 11th, three producers--Canada's Alcan, France's Pechiney and Switzerland's Algroup--announced plans to merge into one colossus, tentatively named APA. Alcan will pay about $9.2 billion in stock in return for effective control of the combined entity; shareholders of the other two firms will receive smaller pieces of the pie. The three bosses boasted that APA, with revenues of some $22 billion and smelting capacity of 2.8m tonnes last year, would be the biggest in the world--bigger even, they claimed, than America's Alcoa (which had a smelting capacity of 3.1m tonnes last year).Alcoa hit back hours later. It announced plans to acquire Reynolds Metals, a smaller American rival, for $5.6 billion in cash and stock. Such a deal, if consummated, would boost Alcoa's share of the North American market to about 35%, up from 26% today; APA would have 20%. The forces driving aluminium companies together are the same as those behind the consolidation of commodity businesses such as chemicals and oil. As manufacturers go global, so the pressure on their suppliers to do the same increases. Metals markets are getting more efficient and competition is increasing, as is the pressure from institutional shareholders to boost returns. Firms reckon that size will yield economies of scale. For Alcan to buy a European firm like Pechiney or Algroup makes perfect sense: either would make a good fit with its existing lines, and give it the global reach it now lacks. However, gobbling up both at once looks like a mistake. One cross-border merger is hard enough: two look like recklessness--especially given France's prickliness over both job cuts and foreign raiders.Alcan's boss, Jacques Bougie, evidently did not like Alcoa dimming his spotlight. He said that he would not comment on such a "knee-jerk" deal, but in the end could not help himself. "This is very flattering," he said. "They must be really threatened."Other, more objective, observers are equally unimpressed. Nigel Kieser of J.P. Morgan, an investment bank, insists that Alcoa is driven by merely the "me too" logic of pursuing size. He argues that Reynolds's strengths, such as its aluminium foil business, make a poor fit with Alcoa, which has no consumer brands itself. He sees little sense in the deal. Yet so keen is Alcoa to gobble up the firm that it may well turn hostile. "I must tell you, however, that we feel strongly this is a transaction we must pursue," Alcoa's boss Alain Belda warned his counterpart at Reynolds in a letter. Whatever the spur, it is clear that this is the beginning of a consolidation that will suck in more companies. As Mr Bougie puts it: "No one in this business can afford to stand back and let the train pass." 