American steelMeltdownTHE bankruptcy of LTV, America's third-biggest steel maker, on December 29th generated plenty of emotions, but surprise was not one of them. This was not only because LTV had gone into Chapter 11 bankruptcy before and a repeat was widely expected (it was the third bust in the industry in as many months), but also because the excuse for its miserable performance was so familiar: dastardly foreigners are ruining America's once-great steel business, dumping rolls of steel on American shores at far below cost. This refrain might play well in Washington, but it gets less true by the day.For a start, imports, which have never accounted for more than about a third of American steel consumption, are now at their lowest level in years (and were down more than a quarter, year-on-year, in November). Part of the reason, and a big factor in LTV's collapse, is that American steel prices have plummeted to a 20-year low--so low that hardly anybody, not even cheap Asian producers, can make money. The blame for this lies not with subsidised imports but simply with too much product and not enough demand--two problems that are mainly domestic in origin, since they stem from a slowdown in the car industry and a lack of consolidation in the American steel industry itself.Steel is an old business in America, dominated by firms such as USX and Bethlehem Steel that date back to the 19th century. That is a proud legacy but also a costly one, measured in everything from the size of their pension plans to the cost of cleaning up old facilities. Bethlehem Steel, for instance, no longer makes steel at the huge plant around its Pennsylvania headquarters. The towering blast furnaces are being turned into a museum and the black monolith of an executive headquarters is now shared with an accounting firm. In the staff canteen it is easy to tell which employees are which: the ones with grey hair work for the steel company. The average age of members of the United Steelworkers of America, the main union, is 50; some integrated companies have five retired workers for every active employee.The big "integrated" steel makers, such as LTV, USX and Bethlehem, have high fixed costs and long planning cycles; turning ore into finished steel requires massive plants that can take a decade or more to complete or retool. By contrast, the "mini-mills" of competitors such as Nucor, which make new steel from scrap, are smaller, cheaper and faster to set up, allowing their owners to react more flexibly to market conditions.Over the past 25 years, steel from domestic mini-mills has taken far more of the integrated giants' market share than have foreigners. Nucor is now worth more than the three leading integrated makers combined. Yet mini-mills cannot do it all: there is not enough scrap to satisfy all steel demand, and steel made from scrap is not high enough quality for all uses. Integrated producers may be out of fashion, but they are not about to go away entirely.But will they be American? To hear the industry's lobbyists tell it, this hinges on political willingness to fight unfair trade. Backed by an army of lawyers, American steel makers have been attacking imports for decades, successfully winning over one administration after another. Despite years of decline, steel remains one of the most protected and subsidised industries in America, and one of the main irritants in global trade negotiations, weakening American arguments for open markets elsewhere.Imports have indeed exacerbated the steel industry's problems, but far less imported steel than the industry claims has been true dumping. Aside from their own high costs, the biggest blow to American steel makers in recent years has been the strong dollar, which makes all imports cheaper. The Asian financial crisis took this to an extreme; as Asian steel demand dried up, the plunge of currencies there made steel from South Korea, in particular, irresistibly cheap.Since the crisis, however, much has changed. Asia has largely recovered and the dollar has weakened, making American steel more competitive. Tariffs and other trade sanctions have slashed imports from countries such as Russia. The continuing financial woes of American steel firms make it easier for trade officials to find the "injury" they need to justify harsh import restrictions. Indeed, last month a trade panel found that 11 countries' imports had harmed steel makers--a first step to imposing sanctions.Perhaps because of all this protection, America's steel producers have been slow to do the one thing that might help them most: merge. The biggest of them, USX, is only the world's 11th-largest steel maker, although America until recently was the world's largest steel market (China has now overtaken it). Even as steel companies in Europe, Asia and Latin America have joined up, American firms have remained stubbornly apart, resulting in excess capacity and scale inefficiencies.The problem, argues Michael Gambardella, an analyst at J.P. Morgan, is that the companies are distracted by the difficulties in finding a good fit between existing production facilities, rather than focusing on non-production-related expenses, which eat up most of their margin, even in good years. The result may be more acquisitions from abroad, which would give foreign firms a production base inside American trade barriers. Considering that Bethlehem Steel, for instance, is now worth just $250m--small change for any big firm--such an option has never been cheaper. 