An interview with Peter MunkYou’ve got to hedge your betsPeter Munk is stepping down on April 30th from his position as chairman of Barrick Gold, a company he founded three decades ago. In an interview on March 24th in his Toronto office, he talked about his career, the mining business and what advice he would give to those entering it today.How has the mining business changed since you first got into it?Mining is a very Canadian business, after fur trading, the second activity for which we were known. We were the hewers of wood and the sellers of ore. That was our business. The Hudson's Bay Company was first, but after a while we became a mining country. We had the biggest mining schools, we had the biggest mining companies, more discoveries than anybody else. We produced the best miners. We had world-class companies.For 100 years it was assumed that a successful mining company had to be run by miners. They forgot that mining companies ultimately are public vehicles when they are big. The thought of having a mining company run by somebody who had never been to a mine was as alien as you and I going for lunch to the moon.I knew nothing about mining, so I couldn't pretend I was building a mining empire because of my unique knowledge of geology. What I did know was how to run a business. The investor doesn't give a damn about what you know about mining. They want results. And if the businessman can produce better results than the miner, and I mean financial results not mining results, they are going to buy that share.My job was to play the stockmarket. My job was to hustle the shares. And I left the mining operation totally to miners. You can't be a master of everything in today's world. So the mining industry today is more like any other public business. And that is a major change in the Canadian mining scene. We lost all the top mining companies because we were too long and too much in the mining-fraternity mode, meaning the belief that to run a mining company you had to be a miner.Why did you decide to go into gold?Because I'm a pretty good businessperson. I like business. And mining was to me an area that offered an opportunity. Now that our shares have fallen off last year, people say Munk is all committed to growth. Give me a break. The whole ethos of business, the whole teaching of business schools, is that if you dream, dream big. If you have something great, whether it's Facebook or Apple, do you want to remain small? Only these moronic institutional idiots who couldn't run a truck stand say "Oh, he's committed to growth." What do you want to be committed to? Getting smaller? Will that make people buy your shares?Then they say, Munk is a dictator, he's influencing the board. I say, if you are a fading lily, are you going to build a company? How else can you build a company unless you believe in your views, unless you articulate those views, and unless you are prepared to live and die by those views? It doesn't mean you don't make mistakes. Every human being, by the fact that they make decisions, must make bad ones. The key is to be able to have the strength to survive those decisions, learn from them and get stronger. And the gambler never learns from it and goes down. And that's the difference between a gambler like (Paul) Reichmann or (Robert) Campeau, which you (The Economist) compared me to.You can't be successful in business over the years and not have luck on your side. I'm not saying luck is enough. But equally, anybody who doesn't that admit luck plays a big role, that you don't become Bloomberg and you don't become Microsoft without luck, give me a break. But you know the difference between me and Reichmann is that I don't gamble.You think Reichmann was a gambler?Anybody who goes out on a limb and believes nothing can go wrong is a gambler. Every decision you make implies that you can be wrong. So you've got to have a hedge for a decision. That if it goes wrong, it does not eliminate your ability to stay at the table. You've got to hedge your bets.When you started Barrick, you saw the opportunity because in those days of apartheid it was illegal for Americans to own shares in a South African company, so you created a company that had all its assets in America.In those days gold mining was the key industry in South Africa. But after Ian Smith was forced to step down (as prime minister of Rhodesia), the writing was on the wall. So it was easy for me to go up to investors in France, in Germany and in England and say: "You guys keep 3% or 4% or 5% of your assets in gold, why would you do it in South Africa. It's just a matter of time before it goes. Why don't you do it in a safe country like Canada or America?" That was our pitch. And that is how our first 10 years were built. But then South Africa did go and the South African shares collapsed. And then we had to compete with American shares. And that is when we took over other companies.Did you not have qualms that gold was not predictable?That is why we used hedging. When I bought a mine, we brought in a cashflow based at the prevailing gold price. And I said, I can't afford to lose my capital. So we hedged. It took 50% of the upside, but we covered totally our downside. So we could never, ever be worse off than we were. And that made us the world's most profitable company in a few years. Gold kept going down, but we were hedged. So we had the best performing shares. I could buy Homestake and Lac and Summit, one after the other.How has the gold industry changed?Very significantly. In the last six years there has been a very major secular shift--from which we are all suffering. We, the World Gold Council, the association of large mining companies, felt we had to increase the use of gold by securitising gold. So we introduced to the global securities markets the ability to buy gold as a trading stock called ETF, exchange-traded fund. That was previously unheard of.Before ETFs, if you wanted to buy gold, you went to a bank and bought gold coins or a gold bar. But if you were an insurance company, and say your assets were $100 billion and you had to invest 5% of your assets in gold, you had to buy gold shares. That is why the shares of Barrick or Newmont or AngloAmerican were selling at very high multiples. For generations, gold mining shares carried highest multiples--30 or 40 times earnings. Other miners were selling at 12 times earnings.The moment ETFs were introduced, the big institutional investors thought: "I like Barrick and Newmont, and Lac Minerals. But they are run by human beings and they can be hit by a car. They could have a gold mine in a country that is hit by revolution. Why should I be exposed to those risks? So why don't I just buy gold?" With the introduction of gold ETFs, we have created a fully tradable instrument. As a result, the premium on gold shares went down. Our earnings kept rising, but our multiples dropped. None of our share prices moved. They just stayed constant because some $120 billion has moved out from gold shares into gold ETFs.That also gave the hedge funds the opportunity to gamble and go short, go long, do derivatives. With a tiny, tiny amount of money they could buy huge amounts of shares. And they played it like any other derivative, any other gamble. As long as gold prices kept going up, nine or 10 years until about a year and a half ago, everybody piled in. The moment it turned, these guys said: "Let's lock in our profit. Just dump it."Did the World Gold Council foresee this would happen?No. If we had we would not have done it probably.How has the political situation changed over the course of your life in terms of opening mines?Political uncertainty and political instability increases the demand for gold. That is absolutely natural. The more stability and confidence you have that the status quo will be unperturbed, the less demand there is among retail, even among institutions. If the euro were to collapse or Putin were to attack, gold demand would go up. There is an almost inverse relationship between uncertainty and the price of gold.Believe me I'm no gold bug, I was about the first gold miner ever to hedge. I used to get lynched when I went to gold conventions. They thought of me as a heretic. That is another stupidity of the gold mining industry in the old days. If you were a gold miner, you had to believe in gold. Bullshit, excuse my French. What are they going to do with it? I'm in business. If I'm in real estate, I may go short or I may go long. My job is to make money for my shareholders. Not to be a gold bug.The reality is that if you perceive that your currency is not something you'd like to hold or if you'd like to have a bit of a hedge, what do you diversify into? Well, in Canada you diversify into real estate. But if you are in China or India, where things can be nationalised or taken away from you, or if you are in Zambia or Nigeria, that's not a good investment. Gold is also very portable. There is always some place in the world where people are living through a crisis. And if they have to leave, and the government blocks their bank account, gold is the most portable. So all these things combine to make politics and gold prices very interdependent.What about the impact of political uncertainty on operations?For us that is the single biggest problem. It's a bigger problem than gold prices. We're not in the business to make quarterly killings, like (John) Paulson or (George) Soros. We're in the gold business as a business. So we have to think five, 10, 15 years ahead. When you make an investment in a mine, it takes us half a decade to see returns. Unfortunately, major gold deposits in countries of stability, have largely all been found. So we are forced to go into ever less desirable countries. To produce a large amount of gold, you need a large mine. And large mines require a huge amount of investment. And these investments are not something you can pick up and take away if you don't like the government.That is another reason why gold mining shares have been depressed in the past few years in comparison to ETFs. These are based on gold that is in the vault of a bank. If you buy shares in companies that have big gold reserves, but some of them are in less than stable countries, that is a negative for these shares. On the other hand, the instability creates demand, which helps the price. But the instability of the particular country where you have a mine can impact you as a company.So there is a trade off?Yes. You have to be very careful to evaluate political risk now. It's probably the single most important consideration when you are looking to buy a mine or make an investment. Can you trust the country? Can you bring in enough international institutions, such as the IMF or the World Bank, which helps keep governments play ball.Indigenous groups appear to have a lot more say and power in resource development these days.Globally it's a real problem. It's a major, major problem. Why? Because human rights and NGOs and young students are idealistic, like we all were, and the underdog gets their support. Of course, they are sometimes manipulated by very bad lawyers. They (the lawyers) speak on behalf of the extreme portion. It doesn't matter how much you deal with the majority of indigenous people, there is always a splinter group that will go for a lawyer who represents them and who makes legal claim after legal claim.Lawyers for indigenous groups?Yes, indigenous groups. Mostly they are people who are anti-development. So let's say it's an NGO from Holland or from Germany which thinks that mining is wrong, that it punishes natives at the expense of rich Canadians, shareholders. There is a very strong NGO movement globally, with access to an enormous amount of money. Every Hollywood actor, who made a quick $20m without working for it, feels that he can discharge his conscience by giving $100,000 to stop the seal hunt, or stop mining or stop exploiting the natives. These guys (the NGOs) have to produce results. So they get very, very difficult. Very litigious.And countries politically have to accommodate them more and more. So you go from court procedure here to court procedure there. You get delayed in giving people jobs and paying taxes to the community. Mining brings enormous economic benefits to countries, apart from the obvious ones like foreign exchange. It brings employment, taxation, local purchases.Unfortunately, churches in these tiny communities often also don't like the fact that suddenly their people, who were totally dependent on them, now have high-paying jobs. They can send their kids to be educated in big cities.We have to respect minority rights. And the more minority, the more they are entitled to protection. But unfortunately, this attitude to victimisation is growing. More and more people consider themselves to be victimised by foreign investors from rich countries and big companies.Governments suck you in because they want the investment, they want to create jobs and they love the foreign exchange benefit of a $4 billion investment. But once you are there, they've got the $4 billion investment and politicians need to be re-elected. Then you see the headlines about it's our gold. It sure wasn't their gold when it was lying in the ground for 200 years and didn't create a single job. The moment the investment has been made, the shoe is on the other foot and the other foot is not always a nice foot.It's a difficult issue. It's certainly an issue that doesn't seem to get better. It seems to get worse. Which probably, as a countervailing force, augurs well for commodity price increases.Because it will be harder to get commodities out of the ground?You can't. You simply can't. Read last year's statements of all the new CEOs--every major mining company from Anglo to BHP to Xstrata has just fired their CEOs. Every one of them. There was a sea change in the last two years. For every one of them the new mantra is no new mines. The costs have gone through the roof because the number of environmental approvals has gone from 10 to 20 from 20 to 50 from 50 to 100. We now have to write libraries. We opened the Goldstrike mine and created a few thousand jobs. Even in America it took us a year and a half from beginning to end. Now, when we have a discovery in Nevada, four years, five years, six years, just to get the approvals. Imagine the costs.This is environmental as opposed to the indigenous groups?It all adds up. Approvals are piled up on top of approvals. There's just no end to it. Indigenous groups file most of the lawsuits. In Chile we fought our way through years of approvals at unbelievable cost. The lawyers for this splinter group went to the constitutional court and claimed we still shouldn't be allowed to mine because the constitution guaranteed the unimpeded right of indigenous groups to their customary lifestyle. And the very fact that the mine was approved will change their ability to fish, their ability hunt, ability to graze, to walk. There are 170 of them.And maybe they cannot graze, which I fully admit. But they are endangering 3,000 people's jobs and huge economic benefits to the community, educational benefits, tax benefits, foreign exchange benefits. The court cannot consider that. It is entirely focused on whether by opening a mine we have transgressed on the constitutional right of constant and steady unperturbed enjoyment of their rights. Well, you know rights that prevailed 100 years ago, when there was no industry, have to be modified in light of putting a railroad through. Otherwise where do we go? We can't go back to the idyllic days of 100 years ago. We have seven billion people in the world, not three billion.Do you think they are after money? Or is this a principle?I think it's mostly principle. The lawyers are after money. They get paid. The people who provide the money, I think they truly believe, like the Luddites, that development is wrong. I was pretty left wing when I was in college because I believed that every human being had the same rights. You live in this idealistic, beautiful, morally inspired world of correctness. You don't realise until you get a bit older that pragmatism has to prevail. Unless you can create jobs, unless you can create wealth, unless you can create tax revenues this society will not last much longer.Given all these complications, if you were starting out today would you go into the mining business?Of course I would. I've done very well. I could do it again. When I got into this, I didn't have mines in Peru. I didn't have $2 billion to invest. I didn't have to fight NGOs. I had a lousy little mine in Ontario, 14,000 ounces of gold. I was happy as a lark. But I managed to hedge my production. The guys next door to me didn't. So when gold went down, he was a loser. I was a winner. I bought him. A businessman's job is to adjust his strategies, particularly his tactics, to changing conditions. My strategy or tactics seem to have been right at that time. If I started today, I would probably have different tactics.If you were going to give advice to someone coming into mining or business, what sort of advice would you give?The message doesn't change. I re-read a speech of mine, my first speech to the Canadian Club. I don't think I would change a word. You don't have to be a genius. Leading people is a matter of sharing, of enthusing them, of obviously being for the common good and not just for yourself. You cannot be driven just by money. Then you should become a commodity trader or a stock trader. You've got to be driven by the correctness of an idea and how that idea can change the people with you and the community around you for the better. Those are the things that turn on people. And when people are turned on they work day and night. They put their shoulders to the wheel. None of that has changed in 50 years.