Anger over steelReutersBush, steel's buddyTARIFFS are "nothing more than taxes that hurt low- and moderate-income people." Not, as you might suppose, the comment from one of the many countries around the world directly affected by America's decision to impose tariffs on most imports of steel. No, this was the view of Robert Zoellick, America's trade representative, just a few weeks ago. Now Mr Zoellick has the uncomfortable task of explaining why, in spite of his earlier views, the new steel tariffs announced by Mr Bush on March 5th are sensible, legal and justifiable. Persuading America's furious trade partners of this looks like an impossible task.There's no doubt that Mr Bush faced a difficult dilemma over steel. It is possible that the administration underestimated the extent of international criticism over the imposition of tariffs: but this would be only a question of degree--opposition from abroad was inevitable, and the Bush team must have realised this. In the end, the president decided that domestic political considerations had to take priority, even at a time when America continues to need international support in the war against terrorism.The steel makers and their workers are a powerful domestic lobby, partly because they are largely concentrated in a few rustbelt states. Mr Bush unexpectedly won West Virginia in the 2000 presidential election, largely because of President Bill Clinton's failure to do anything to help the steel industry. Mr Bush did not win Pennsylvania, where some of America's biggest integrated steel producers are based. But he hopes that decisive action to help the steel industry now might help the chances of Republican candidates in Pennsylvania and other north-eastern states in the mid-term congressional elections in November.Ironically, perhaps, Mr Bush's other motive in responding sympathetically to the steel industry was to strengthen the administration's chances of securing so-called "trade promotion authority" from Congress. Mr Zoellick badly needs this if he is to be able to negotiate effectively in the new round of world trade talks launched in Doha, Qatar, last November. It enables the administration to put a comprehensive trade deal forward for congressional approval without the Senate or the House of Representatives being able to unpick it line by line. The Senate has yet to approve trade promotion authority, and the House will have to review the question again, if the Senate does give it the thumbs-up. Tariffs on steel imports might, Mr Bush hopes, tip key votes his way.But even on the domestic front, helping the steel industry is not a one-way bet. The principal aim of the new tariffs is to raise the price of steel on the American market, and so help domestic producers who cannot compete with lower-priced imports. But higher-priced steel has a direct impact on American manufacturers--it puts up their production costs. At a time when the American economy is still, at best, only starting to recover from recession, higher prices could choke off demand. That, in turn, would threaten jobs elsewhere in the economy.In spite of these risks, Mr Bush went for big tariffs on most steel imports. Indeed, for several categories of steel, he went for higher tariffs than those recommended by the majority of members of the International Trade Commission (ITC), the body that under American law considers whether domestic industries need help to cope with foreign competition. Flat steel products, tin mill, hot-rolled and cold-finished bar steel will all be subject to 30% tariffs (compared with the majority ITC recommendation of 20%). The tariffs, from which Canada and Mexico, as members of the North American Free-Trade Area, are exempt, have been imposed for three years.The aim, says the administration, is to give the steel industry a breathing space--time to restructure and modernise to cope with foreign competition. Much of this competition, the industry alleges, is unfair since many foreign steel companies enjoy government subsidies. And the administration points out that firms accounting for 30% of American steel-producing capacity have filed for bankruptcy since 1998. Yet in that time, steel imports have actually declined. One of the key problems that the large integrated steel companies face is not so much that of inefficient production but expensive medical and pension benefits to which retired workers are entitled and with which the companies are now saddled. History suggests that the protection of the sort now being extended to the steel sector simply enables the industry concerned yet again to postpone the day of reckoning. History also suggests that such protectionist policies can be a direct threat to the world trading system. As a result of the decision on steel, Mr Bush's reputation as a believer in free trade now lies in tatters, both with America's trading partners and among the conservative, free-trade right-wing of American politics. The president and his advisers insist that temporary protection for the steel industry is permitted by the rules of the World Trade Organisation (WTO) which allows "safeguard" actions--measures aimed at giving short-term relief to industries hit by import surges. This assertion has already been challenged by the European Union, which is taking its case to the WTO. Even before the steel tariffs, the Europeans had a good cause for grievance. They are considering whether to impose sanctions against American tax breaks for US corporations doing business abroad, which the WTO has ruled illegal. A transatlantic trade row could now threaten the Doha round of trade negotiations and could spill over into diplomatic relations generally. The Russians, too, have said steel tariffs could harm bilateral relations (though only Russian imports above current levels will face tariffs). Perhaps the most worrying aspect of the American action is the risk that it will trigger a round of similar protectionist measures from other countries which echo the beggar-thy-neighbour policies of the 1930s that brought on and prolonged the Great Depression. The Europeans, for example, now fear a flood of cheap foreign steel imports, which have, in effect, been denied access to the American market. They are talking about imposing their own safeguard actions to protect themselves against this, given that a WTO case against America could take a year or more to pursue. Most of all, Mr Bush's decision sets a terrible example. With the world's biggest and richest country brushing aside criticism to take such a blatantly protectionist step, the gates may have been opened for scores of other countries with particular trade grievances to do the same.  now threaten the Doha round of trade negotiations and could spill over into diplomatic relations generally. The Russians, too, have said steel tariffs could harm bilateral relations (though only Russian imports above current levels will face tariffs). Perhaps the most worrying aspect of the American action is the risk that it will trigger a round of similar protectionist measures from other countries which echo the beggar-thy-neighbour policies of the 1930s that brought on and prolonged the Great Depression. The Europeans, for example, now fear a flood of cheap foreign steel imports, which have, in effect, been denied access to the American market. They are talking about imposing their own safeguard actions to protect themselves against this, given that a WTO case against America could take a year or more to pursue. Most of all, Mr Bush's decision sets a terrible example. With the world's biggest and richest country brushing aside criticism to take such a blatantly protectionist step, the gates may have been opened for scores of other countries with particular trade grievances to do the same. 