Anglo American's mining setbacksOut of AfricaJUST two years after a subsidiary of Anglo American, a South African mining giant, bought most of Zambia's state-run copper mines, they look likely to close. A low copper price, bigger competitors, technical troubles and spiralling costs have hurt Konkola Copper Mines, which has already run up over $100m in losses. Recovery and the development of a new deep mine would need another $1 billion of external funds. Unless the copper price rises, or a buyer (perhaps the government) steps in, the mines will shut within months.All this is terrible news for Zambia, already buffeted by the woes of next-door Zimbabwe. Some 10,000 people may lose their jobs. Copper provides roughly two-thirds of Zambia's foreign-exchange earnings, mostly through Anglo. Worse, on January 29th another large South African mining group, Anglovaal Mining, said it was writing down by half the value of its Zambian operations. A slump in copper exports would wipe out Zambia's expected 5% annual growth this year.Nor is this good news for Anglo, which will write off at least $350m from its foray. The company's base-metals division has been losing money, mainly because of low prices for zinc, nickel and copper. It may yet have to close other mines. Anglo points out that its core interests are elsewhere: it made a profit of $277m from platinum mining in South Africa alone in the six months to last July. But the Zambian retreat follows a defeat for another subsidiary, AngloGold. In January it was beaten by Newmont, an American rival, in a bidding war for a much-coveted Australian gold miner, Normandy. Although AngloGold has various lucrative mines in Africa, it says investors want it to expand elsewhere in the world.Anglo American says it hopes to be a "focused global mining group" as the industry consolidates. Focused? On the contrary, it plans to dig up many different sorts of minerals, to spread the risk of price changes, and plans to bolster its non-African operations. In 1999 the group listed on the London Stock Exchange, and last year it untangled itself from a complicated cross-ownership scheme with De Beers, a South African diamond company. After these changes, some say Anglo is turning away from Africa. Tony Trahar, its chief executive, insists that the company is "comfortable doing business" there. Well, except in Zambia.