Anglo American spurns XstrataAnglophilia, XstrataphobiaIN MINING, it seems, opposites do not attract. On Monday June 22nd Anglo American, a mining firm listed in London and Johannesburg, sent Xstrata packing, after the Swiss firm proposed a PS40 billion ($65 billion) merger. Unlike its rivals, Anglo American has never gone through a transformative merger in its 90-year history. Xstrata, which was created in 2002 and has since gone through a series of medium-sized mergers, looks unlikely to change that. Its proposal, though billed as a merger of equals, looks like a takeover, with no premium for the sellers.The two firms do have some things in common: both were of similar value before the approach became public, with comparable debts. The combination would be the world's biggest producer of diamonds, platinum, chrome and zinc, and the second-largest supplier of coal for steelmakers and copper. Xstrata puts potential annual savings from the merger at over $1 billion within three years. But Anglo dismissed the idea as "totally unacceptable" on the grounds that Xstrata's mines are not in the same league as its own low-cost, long-life assets. Xstrata disputes this.Known for tightly controlling costs, Xstrata has outperformed Anglo of late. But Anglo reckons its share price will pick up as the price of platinum and sales of diamonds rebound. The first has been hit by dwindling car sales (it is used in exhaust systems), the second by diminished appetite for luxury goods in the recession. Anglo is touting its own cost-cutting plan that it says will save $2 billion by 2011.Rumour also has it that Mick Davis, Xstrata's boss, would want to run the whole show. Xstrata hopes that Anglo's investors, miffed by some ill-judged acquisitions and the company's poor recent performance, will still see the advantage of harnessing Xstrata's expertise in cutting costs and put pressure on Anglo's managers to think again. Some hope for a sweetened offer, though Xstrata would have trouble finding the money.Anglo's boss, Cynthia Carroll, clearly has no wish to be sidelined. In rebuffing Xstrata she has an ally in South Africa's government, which has a 5% stake in Anglo and a competition authority with the power to impede the merger. Anglo is regarded as a national champion, even though it moved its headquarters to London a decade ago. A third of its assets and shareholders remain in South Africa. The unions, important backers of the ANC, South Africa's ruling party, are fearful that jobs will go, though Xstrata believes that it can cut costs without firing any miners. And some suspect that Mr Davis would want to incorporate the new company in Switzerland, with its low taxes, rather than retain a listing in South Africa.A few analysts regard Anglo's swift rebuff of Xstrata as a sign that China's Chinalco or Vale of Brazil may be poised to make a better offer. Firms with ties to China's government have been scouting enthusiastically for natural resources of late (see article). But if South Africa's government looks askance at Xstrata, it is even less likely to welcome a state-controlled Chinese firm or a Brazilian national champion. 