Another mining boss resignsGoodbye Mr Merger, hello Mr DisciplineTHE obvious conclusion to draw from the latest departure of the boss of a mining giant is that slumping profits and big write-downs will inevitably lead to the exit. Indeed, the resignation of Marius Kloppers (pictured) as the chief executive of BHP Billiton, announced on February 20th, was accompanied by both. So was the recent departure of Tom Albanese from Rio Tinto and Cynthia Carroll's decision before Christmas to step down from the top job at Anglo American. The latter pair can rightly be regarded as casualties; Mr Kloppers leaves with his head held a good deal higher.Mr Albanese fell after yet another huge write-down at Alcan, an aluminium venture expensively acquired just after he took over at Rio in 2007 (the same year that Mr Kloppers and Mrs Carroll rose to the top). Add a multi-billion dollar charge against a more recent coal project in Mozambique and it is easy to see why Rio ended up with a big annual loss. Mrs Carroll went because of disquiet over long-running delays at a vast Brazilian iron-ore mine and a general feeling that she had failed to capitalise on the biggest boom that the mining business had, thanks to commodities-hungry China, ever seen.In contrast, Mr Kloppers is resigning largely because he thinks the time is right. Although a Chinese slowdown has hit profits and an investment in American shale, where natural gas prices have remained persistently low, looks misjudged, BHP is in much better shape than its two rivals. This is partly because of the failure of mega-mergers with Rio and Canada's Potash Corp: they would have made the company bigger still, but left it burdened with a greatly strained balance sheet.Mr Kloppers has said that good bosses usually have a shelf-life of around five years. He has been boss for six. Rumours that he was about to depart had emerged largely as a result of his efforts at succession planning, which included bringing in new managers and shuffling the existing ones between businesses to gain experience.Mr Albanese and Mrs Carroll both departed suddenly (if not unexpectedly). Rio's new boss Sam Walsh, is head of the dominant iron ore business, which accounts for the bulk of the firm's profits. This looks less like succession planning than a case of "Hobson's choice". Anglo also appeared to have little in the way of a planned handover--even though Mrs Carroll had long been expected to get the chop.Mr Kloppers had a hand in the selection of his replacement, Andrew Mackenzie, who he poached from Rio in 2007. Mr Mackenzie says that he does not intend to change strategy at BHP, but reckons that his previous employment in petrochemicals--a perilously low-margin business--will come in handy now that mining's costs are rising and its margins are being pinched.For Mr Kloppers the job coincided with a slew of attempted mega-mergers against the backdrop of an unprecedented China-fuelled commodities boom and, later, a global financial meltdown. In the years to come, the order of the day will be different, according to Mr Mackenzie: "cost control and capital discipline".