Anti-Dumping Duties Issued For Hot-Rolled Steel Flat Products, U.K. Hit HardestThe Department of Commerce announced today its affirmative preliminary determinations in the anti-dumping duty investigations of hot-rolled steel flat products from Australia, Brazil, Japan, Korea, the Netherlands, Turkey, and the U.K.Free Download: The March 2016 MMI ReportThe products covered by these investigations are certain hot-rolled, flat-rolled steel products, with or without patterns in relief, and whether or not annealed, painted, varnished, or coated with plastics or other non-metallic substances.In the U.K. investigation, the mandatory respondent Tata Steel U.K. Ltd. received a preliminary dumping margin of 49.05%. All other producers/exporters in the U.K. received a preliminary dumping margin of 49.05%.In the Australia investigation, mandatory respondent BlueScope Steel Ltd. received a preliminary dumping margin of 23.25%. All other producers/exporters in Australia received a preliminary dumping margin of 23.25%.In the Brazil investigation, mandatory respondents Companhia Siderurgica Nacional and Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais (Usiminas) received preliminary dumping margins of 33.91% and 34.28%, respectively. All other producers/exporters in Brazil received a preliminary dumping margin of 33.91%. The rate for Usiminas was calculated using total adverse facts available because the company did not respond to Commerce's questionnaire.In the Japan investigation, mandatory respondents JFE Steel Corporation and Nippon Steel & Sumitomo Metal Corporation received preliminary dumping margins of 6.79% and 11.29% respectively. The rates for both companies were calculated using partial facts available and adverse facts available, as they, too, did not provide Commerce with requested information. All other producers/exporters in Japan received a preliminary dumping margin of 10.24%.In the South Korea investigation, mandatory respondents Hyundai Steel Company and POSCO received preliminary dumping margins of 3.97% and 7.33%, respectively. All other producers/exporters in Korea received a preliminary dumping margin of 5.65%.In the Netherlands investigation, the mandatory respondent Tata Steel IJmuiden B.V. received a preliminary dumping margin of 5.07%, which was calculated using partial adverse facts available because the company also failed to provide requested information. All other producers/exporters in the Netherlands received a preliminary dumping margin of 5.07%.In the Turkey investigation, mandatory respondents Colakoglu Metalurji A.S./Colakoglu Dis Ticaret A.S and Eregli Demir ve Celik Fabrikalari T.A.S./Iskendrun Demir ve Celik T.A.S. received preliminary dumping margins of 7.07% and 5.24%, respectively. All other producers/exporters in Turkey received a preliminary dumping margin of 6.82%.As a result of the preliminary affirmative determinations, Commerce will instruct U.S. Customs and Border Protection to require cash deposits for covered imports of hot-rolled steel flat products based on these preliminary rates.Free Sample Report: Our March Metal Buying OutlookThe petitioners for these investigations are AK Steel Corporation, ArcelorMittal USA LLC, Nucor Corporation, SSAB Enterprises, LLC, Steel Dynamics, Inc., and United States Steel Corporation.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service