Arizona gold minesThe rushCLAY WORST is in a hurry. His mine, the Old Wasp, is the only operational gold mine left in Goldfield, Arizona, a pretty tourist town an hour's drive from Phoenix. His is a primary gold mine, which means it produces more gold than other valuable metals like copper. The Wasp produces 75% gold, 25% silver, and he thinks it could contain as much as $60m-worth.But at 80 years old, handicapped and with an invalid wife, Mr Worst cannot go any further underground. He also knows that big mining companies prefer mountains of low-grade ore to small, high-grade mines like his. His best hope, he reckons, is to find a small Canadian mining company to team up with. But he admits this is risky. "Gold mining is a crap shoot to start with. Make some big mistakes and you lose your shirt."Stories like this are increasingly common across America as gold prices soar. Gold is trading above $1,100 an ounce compared with $350 in 2002, and with the euro under pressure thanks to the risk of a Greek default, gold is back in favour for those who want to diversify away from the dollar.Goldfield was a leading gold mining hub in the 1850s after the California gold rush subsided, according to Ron Feldman, a local historian. After several big finds, Goldfield was for a while America's second-largest producer. Other hubs have surfaced in Nevada, Colorado and California but Arizona, with some 50 mining districts including Goldfield, Tucson and Prescott, remains attractive to owners and out-of-state prospectors. Bob Schoose is Goldfield's mayor and owns two mines; the Black Queen and the Mammoth. Every week he sees newcomers, mostly unemployed or bankrupt company owners arriving in the hope of finding gold. He and other locals call them dreamers. "They buy picks or pans, camp out near the river but few last more than two weeks." For local mine owners, however, the prospects of finding gold have never felt more real. However, John Mathis of the Thunderbird Global Financial Services Centre in Glendale, Arizona, remains sceptical. To confirm there are worthwhile deposits of gold, expensive tests must be done, he says. Getting the digging and processing equipment to the site costs millions, and then tons of gold must be produced and preferably other valuable minerals must also be present for a mine to be profitable. None of this dismays the likes of Mr Worst. If the right operator appears, he will quit and retire. Mr Schoose, meanwhile, is out prospecting at his own mines each weekend. It's back-breaking work, he says, but it is the hope of hitting the gold that motivates. He smiles behind his long beard. "Gold is very, very hard to find but it's there. I can feel it."