AsiaBooming onOne question will dominate Australia in 2013: has the mining boom run out of puff? Richer than earlier booms, it has helped Australia to survive more than 21 years without a recession. But just as Australians had started to feel that this exceptional performance was here to stay, comfort will give way to uncertainty. This will make life tricky for Julia Gillard's minority Labor government as it prepares to fight an election in the second half of the year.Australia's sparsely populated outback regions, first opened up for farmland by the pioneers 150 years ago, have never been more central to the country's economy. The new frontiers stretch from iron-ore mountains in the Pilbara region of Western Australia to gas trapped in coal seams under the Bowen Basin of Queensland. Mining companies are spending billions of dollars extracting these commodities for the hungry markets of Asia. Mining investment drove much of Australia's 3.2% growth in 2012. Investment in mining and energy projects will be worth about 9% of GDP in 2013, more than double its level three years earlier.But the Earth's riches will no longer prove so rich. A symbolic turning-point in the mining boom came in August 2012. BHP Billiton, Australia's biggest company (and one of the world's biggest miners), sent a chill through the market when it put two projects worth about $40 billion on indefinite hold: expanding a copper and uranium mine at Olympic Dam, in South Australia, and enlarging harbour export capacity for its Pilbara iron ore. Soon afterwards Fortescue Metals, another Pilbara iron-ore miner, delayed a big project and sacked 1,000 workers.A slump in the spot price for iron ore, Australia's biggest export product, prompted the contractions. After reaching dizzying heights of $180 a tonne in 2011, the price fell below $100 in 2012. China, the country's largest trading partner, buys more than two-thirds of Australia's iron-ore exports (Japan and South Korea buy most of the rest). Having enjoyed record profits on the back of all this, mining bosses are betting that China's slowdown will turn around in 2013. If Chinese cities, many with a population half or more the size of Australia's 23m people, start using up more steel, iron-ore prices will revive.And if they do not? Since Australia's central bank already sees the mining investment boom peaking in 2014, if iron-ore prices do not bounce back the boom will actually start fading a year earlier. And that will create all sorts of economic and political complications.At stake will be the Gillard government's budget surplus of $1.9 billion for 2012-13. The government has also promised big spending on insurance for disabled people and on free dental treatment. A drop in mining tax revenue as a result of lower commodity prices will offer two choices: ditch the surplus, or save it by cutting spending elsewhere.Either one will be politically risky in an election year. If opinion polls stay as bad for Labor as they were in 2012, Ms Gillard will lose to the conservative Liberal-National coalition. Her thin chance of survival will be that Australians dislike Tony Abbott, the opposition leader, even more than they disapprove of her.Given their turbulence, there will be no guarantee either that commodity prices will bring relief for manufacturing and other bits of the economy suffering from a highly valued currency. If Europe and America remain in the doldrums, foreign investors seeking safe havens will pour money into Australia, keeping its dollar high. To survive, Australian businesses will have to start heeding advice from Ken Henry, a former Treasury head and author of a white paper on "Australia in the Asian Century": stop defining themselves solely as Australian and integrate operations more closely with Asia.Robert Milliken: Australia correspondent, The Economist