Australia and the credit crunchDigging for victoryReutersTWO straight railway lines run through the red desert of the Pilbara region, in Western Australia, almost touching each other in places. One belongs to BHP Billiton, a big mining company, hauling iron ore in trains more than a mile long to ships bound for China and elsewhere in Asia. The other lugs ore for Fortescue Metals, a relative newcomer. China's demand for the Pilbara's minerals to feed its insatiable steel mills has been a bedrock of Australia's boom for much of this decade. With the onset of the global financial crisis, the region is now proving crucial to whether Australia can defy the fate of other rich countries and avoid a recession.At first the portents looked good. Australia prospered through the Asian financial crisis 11 years ago. Once derided as an "old economy" dependent on commodities, Australia's tangible assets in fact underwrote a further stroke of luck as China's rapid growth created an unprecedented market for iron ore and coal. China is now Australia's biggest trading partner; it buys 40% of the Pilbara's iron ore.A few months ago, this seemed enough to protect Australia from the storms buffeting the world economy. No longer. On November 5th the federal Treasury shaved Australia's 2008-09 growth forecast from 2.75% in May's budget to 2%. It also cut by three-quarters the forecast budget surplus of almost A$22 billion ($15 billion). Some of this was the result of a A$10.4 billion stimulus package that Kevin Rudd, the prime minister, announced last month. But the Treasury also cited falling revenues linked to the global financial crisis, and a weaker outlook for growth and demand among Australia's emerging-economy customers, including China.Five days later the central bank delivered a bleaker prognosis. It forecast annual growth falling to just 1.5%. Some economists believe even this is optimistic. Only two months ago Glenn Stevens, the bank's governor, lauded as "the largest shock of its kind" an improvement of almost two-thirds in Australia's terms of trade over five years. The growth has been driven largely by demand from China, and especially by record rises the mining companies negotiated earlier this year in contract prices for iron ore and coal. Now, the bank declared, the terms of trade had peaked. The same day as the central bank's report, Fortescue and Rio Tinto, another mining company, announced they were cutting their Pilbara iron-ore production by 10% because of China's slowing industrial output. Just as they did so, China announced a $586 billion spending plan to recharge its economy (see article). Mr Rudd described it as "extraordinary" and "very good news" for Australia's economy, too. In early October, as the full impact of the financial crisis sunk in, Mr Rudd, having sought reassurance from Wen Jiabao, his Chinese counterpart, that China's demand for Australia's commodities would stay strong, declared China "critical" for Australia's economic performance. So China's stimulus this week, inspiring visions of more iron ore needed for steel to build housing and infrastructure, has brought fresh hopes that the Pilbara once again will be the lucky country's saviour.A region slightly smaller than Spain, about 1,300km (675 miles) north of Perth, the Pilbara was first mined for iron ore in the 1960s when Japan was East Asia's emerging industrial giant. Until recently, its reserves were pretty much carved up by a comfortable duopoly of Rio Tinto and BHP, two global giants. The China-based boom has been enlivened by the arrival of a third competitor in the form of Fortescue Metals, a Perth-based company started by Andrew Forrest, a former stockbroker.Mr Forrest's challenge to the big boys' market control, and his colourful background, have made him something of a media darling. His great-great uncle was a pioneer, explorer and Western Australia's first premier. Mr Forrest's first bid as a commodities entrepreneur, through a nickel-mining venture, ended in tears seven years ago when his then company failed to meet promised production targets.Undeterred, he spotted a chance to make a fortune from iron ore. He noticed that, just as China's boom started gathering steam earlier this decade, Australia's share of the market was falling, and those of India and Brazil were rising. Defying market sceptics, he raised almost A$3 billion, mainly from American bondholders, to launch Fortescue. In May, barely five years after he founded the company, it shipped its first iron ore to Baosteel, China's biggest steel company. At that time, few people outside the business world, and his home state, had heard of Mr Forrest. Yet in the same month, Business Review Weekly, a Sydney magazine, declared him Australia's richest person, with wealth of almost A$10 billion, mainly in Fortescue shares. Six months later, he has lost the status. In a sign of the mining boom's rollercoaster ride, Fortescue's share price, like those of other commodities companies, has fallen steeply since the financial crisis hit.Mr Forrest maintains the wealth ranking means little to him. "I want to enjoy life, have fun and be useful," he says in his Perth office, a relatively modest affair compared with the towers his two global competitors occupy up the street. Fun or not, they have been forced to take Mr Forrest seriously. Cloud Break, Fortescue's only operating mine, lies in isolated desert, near the dry Fortescue River, about 270km south-east of Port Hedland (see map). When BHP refused Mr Forrest's request for commercial access to its railway line, he built his own line next to it. Wayne Swan, Australia's treasurer, ruled last month that both BHP and Rio Tinto must allow Fortescue access to their Pilbara railway lines to boost mining competition. The two big companies have indicated they may appeal against the ruling.In what he calls "the most important part of anything I've ever stood for", Mr Forrest has also persuaded Mr Rudd to back a scheme he initiated to create 50,000 jobs for indigenous Australians within two years across all industries, not just mining. The issue is especially sensitive in the ore-rich Pilbara, where aborigines comprise 20% of the population (compared with 2% Australia-wide). Mr Forrest grew up there, and saw to his dismay children "equal to me in the classroom and on the sports field" end up on welfare, while he and other whites forged ahead.The job-creation plan now seems ambitious. The Treasury predicts the global slowdown will lift national unemployment to 5% next year, and to almost 6% in 2010. Rio Tinto, the Pilbara's biggest operator, has 11 mines including Tom Price, the oldest and still one of the richest in ore quality. Just before the crisis, Sam Walsh, Rio's iron-ore chief in Perth, declared it had invested all its Pilbara earnings from the past five years, around A$9 billion, into expanding its export capacity by 60%. This week, by contrast, Rio cut annual-production targets by 20m tonnes.Despite the slump, the miners are staying outwardly optimistic. Tom Albanese, Rio's chief executive, says gamely that China's slowdown will be short and sharp. He expects "rebounding" demand in 2009. BHP, in the throes of a takeover bid for Rio, has announced no production cuts so far. Fortescue, possibly the most vulnerable of the three because of its sole reliance on iron ore, has delayed next year's planned production target until 2010. Graeme Rowley, Fortescue's executive director, argues nevertheless that China's need for iron ore and steel to continue its "revolution" of building new cities means that "Australia will remain constructively and very positively part of China's future". The pace at which that happens will decide not just Australia's capacity to avoid the worst of the global downturn. It may also determine the outcome of a David-and-Goliath battle of raw capitalism in the Pilbara.