Australia's leadership battleRudderlessKEVIN RUDD, Australia's prime minister, faces a challenge to his leadership of the ruling Labor Party on June 24th. Less than three years after he led Labor to power, and with a federal election due later this year, Mr Rudd has been forced to contest a ballot among Labor parliamentarians for the party's leadership against Julia Gillard, the deputy prime minister. If she unseats him, she will become Australia's first female prime minister.Mr Rudd had enjoyed high opinion poll ratings almost ever since Labor defeated the conservative coalition government, under John Howard, in November 2007. But his satisfaction rating started plunging in April. In a poll earlier this week (PDF link), it was 36%. The government's own ratings also dropped from a comfortable winning position in March to being neck-and-neck with the opposition coalition, now led by Tony Abbott.The slide followed Mr Rudd's decision in late April to defer his government's planned introduction of an emissions trading scheme until at least 2013. Legislation to start the scheme is stuck in the Senate, the upper house of parliament, where Labor lacks a majority. But Mr Rudd had made an attack on climate change a defining element of his 2007 election platform. Many voters reacted with dismay to his decision to defer it.In May, Mr Rudd announced plans for a "resources super profits tax", under which mining companies will be taxed 40% after their profits reach a certain level. He maintained that the tax was a fair way of returning to Australians the benefits of a mining boom in resources such as iron ore and coal. But big mining companies such as BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto have waged an unrelenting public campaign against the tax, arguing it will cost Australia jobs and investment. Polls indicate public opinion is evenly split. The dispute has damaged Labor, as the campaign season approaches for the general election due by the end of the year.Speculation about Mr Rudd's leadership has been swirling among nervous Labor parliamentarians for several weeks. Ms Gillard, the education minister, and one of Mr Rudd's inner circle, had always maintained that she would not challenge him for the leadership. But on June 23rd, support for Mr Rudd among Labor's mainly right-wing power brokers outside parliament quickly fell away. Some were reported to fear that Labor would lose the forthcoming election unless Mr Rudd was replaced. As events moved swiftly in Canberra, Ms Gillard and other senior ministers, including Wayne Swan, the Treasurer, gathered in Mr Rudd's office for crisis talks.Mr Rudd emerged to tell a press conference that Ms Gillard had requested a ballot for the Labor leadership, which he would contest. "I was elected by the people of Australia to do a job," he said. "I was not elected by the factional leaders of the Australian Labor Party. I intend to continue doing that job."If Mr Rudd wins the ballot, one of his first jobs will be to continue with a planned visit to the G20 summit in Canada later this week. If he loses, it will be one of the most spectacular falls from power in Australia's history.