Best of 2017 Top Steel Posts of the Year, From Section 232 to SurchargesPavel Ignatov/Adobe StockSteel featured heavily in our top 10 most-viewed posts of 2017 -- but there were plenty of other steel articles of note here on MetalMiner.Benchmark Your Current Metal Price by Grade, Shape and Alloy: See How it Stacks UpHere is an additional sampling of some of our writings on steel here throughout the year:"Steel Price Forecast, July 2017: China Reduces Steel Capacity." Our July steel price forecast was another popular post."Trump's Section 232 Case Threatens Old Friends and New." Unsurprisingly, anything about Section 232 and steel made for a popular read in 2017."Surging Coking Coal Could Lift Steel Prices in China." This post delved into the relationship between coking coal and steel."World Watches 232 Steel Investigation, Chinese Steel Production." Although the calendar year is ending without a verdict, Section 232 was the talk of the year."Breaking Down the Graphite Surcharge Cost for Stainless Steel." Our Irene Martinez Canorea broke down the impacts of two new graphite electrode surcharges announced in October."Stainless Steel MMI: Electrode Surcharge Doesn't Appear Justified as Stainless MMI Drops." Our October Stainless Steel MMI report was a popular one, as Martinez Canorea incorporated the news of the new surcharges in her monthly assessment."China's Miffed That India Isn't Importing Chinese Steel for its Rail Projects." Like the headline shows, China wasn't too happy with what one Chinese newspaper called Indian "protectionism.""US Steel Mills Lose Purchasing Power as Chinese Steel Prices Fall." In March, Chinese steel prices fell while U.S. prices rose.Free Sample Report: Our Annual Metal Buying OutlookYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service