Bolivia's industryIn what has now become a hallmark of his presidency, Evo Morales stood before crowds of supporters on February 9th to announce the renationalisation of another former state asset, the world's fourth-largest tin smelter, Empresa Metalurgica Vinto. The current owners, Glencore, a Swiss metals and minerals broker, will not be compensated, Mr Morales said. While the case certainly raises concerns about the government's intentions towards other mining companies, the expropriation of Vinto is probably more about political vendetta than a policy of nationalisation.The announcement came after a difficult week for the government. The president was forced to drop a plan to increase mining taxes after thousands of individual miners marched on La Paz to protest against the proposal. In the face of an open revolt by a sector normally supportive of the government, Mr Morales was forced into a humiliating about-turn and agreed to freeze taxes at current levels.Vinto always was seen as a likely target for the Morales administration. Glencore bought Vinto in 2005 as part of an estimated US$90m purchase of mining assets owned by a former Bolivian president, Gonzalo Sanchez de Lozada, who was forced from office in 2003 and fled to the US.Mr Sanchez de Lozada was both the architect of privatisation reforms in the 1990s and the former owner of the country's largest mining company, Compania Minera del Sur (Comsur). He is also the man held responsible by the current administration for the deaths of 67 people during anti-government protests in 2003. Those protests were spurred on by Mr Morales, then leader of the coca growers association. On the basis of the charge against him, the government is mounting a strong effort for the extradition of Mr Sanchez de Lozada to face prosecution in Bolivia.Seizing Vinto was an immediate second-best option for the government that both satisfied a need for political pay-back and provided a means to gain a greater share of the proceeds earned from Bolivia's natural resources. Soaring tin prices have converted the once loss-making Vinto refinery into a highly profitable venture since 2004, and its earnings will make a useful addition to fiscal revenues.In defence of the government's action, the mining minister, Guillermo Dalence, claimed the original 1999 privatisation sale of Vinto to Allied Deals (UK, latterly RBG) and its subsequent purchase by Comsur in 2003 were fraudulent transactions, and that in renationalising the company the government was simply putting things right. Both sales were carried out by public tender and attracted contesting bidders.Glencore's response has been to demand prompt compensation. A 1991 bilateral investment treaty between Switzerland and Bolivia protects against confiscation of assets, and Glencore says it may seek arbitration. However, the Bolivian government has rejected the demand, claiming that it has no legal obligation to Glencore because there is no public record of the sales transaction between Glencore and Comsur.Indeed, Mr Dalence has now launched an investigation into the original sale of Vinto to Allied Deals and a legal suit against Glencore for not fulfilling investment obligations contained in the Allied Deals sales contract. This reflects the animosity the government feels towards the beneficiaries of privatisations and is a harbinger of the long battle Glencore now faces in pursuit of its compensation claim.In the face of the expropriation and its complexities, investors in Bolivia's mining sector are less perturbed than might have been expected. The sector is on the brink of a substantial privately led investment boom, thanks to firm prices for all of Bolivia's mineral products. Increased mine capacity produced a marked jump in mineral export earnings and volume growth in the first nine months of 2006. Firmer prices and output increases for the main minerals--zinc, gold, silver and tin--acted to raise the overall value of total mineral production by 92.9% year on year to US$816.5m.The government has quietly given assurances that whatever it may say in public it will not act against companies operating legally and in good faith. Foreign mining investors believe that mining code revisions to be announced by the government will be neither draconian nor confiscatory in terms of a higher tax burden and are therefore pressing ahead with their projects.Major mining projects due for completion in 2007 will provide an enormous boost to mineral output in the near term. The largest of these is San Cristobal, a silver and zinc mine owned by Apex Silver Mines (US). Due to commence trial operations in May, the mine and plant are projected to become fully operational in the third quarter of 2007. At a cost of US$720m and with an ore treatment capacity of 40,000 tonnes per day, the project is the largest mining venture ever mounted in Bolivia. San Cristobal is expected to double Bolivia's current total annual production of both zinc and silver and produce a fivefold increase in lead output, altogether worth at current prices around US$1.4bn in mineral exports annually.