BougainvilleExplosive minesROWS about minerals sparked the decade-long civil war between Bougainville and Papua New Guinea (PNG). Now Bougainville's politicians are hoping mining revenues will allow them to repair destroyed infrastructure and raise living standards. But this has brought them into conflict with PNG about the terms of the autonomy arrangements that ended the war in 1997, and raised questions about the rightful ownership of the mineral deposits secreted under the island's towering, rainforest-covered mountain ranges. PNG's prime minister, Sir Michael Somare, and his influential deputy, Puka Temu, visited Bougainville in late January for negotiations. They acknowledged the need to transfer supervisory powers over mining to the Autonomous Government of Bougainville (ABG), but Mr Temu argued that "the state", ie, PNG, should remain owner of all the resources. Joseph Kabui, president of the ABG since 2005, strongly disagrees. He argues that if his government were to accept PNG's ownership of the resources, it would lose all support and there would be a serious danger of the rebellion's beginning again. That rebellion, which some claim cost 15,000-20,000 lives, was sparked by landowner disputes centred on the distribution of revenues from the vast Panguna copper mine operated by a Rio Tinto subsidiary. When the PNG government sent in the army to quash the rebellion, it escalated into an independence struggle, led by the Bougainville Revolutionary Army (BRA). PNG's soldiers withdrew after a 1990 ceasefire. But the embattled island then endured a long and debilitating conflict among the islanders themselves. The peace agreement eventually reached between BRA leaders and PNG politicians in 2001 entailed the PNG government's accepting greater autonomy for Bougainville and a referendum on independence, to be held at some point between 2015-20. In the intervening period, powers were to be devolved to the ABG. The latest dispute centres on the first big transfer of powers under the new arrangements. That this devolution of authority concerns mine ownership and regulation reinforces its sensitivity. Mr Kabui and his ministers argue that the mine-ownership issue matters little to the national government, but is of pivotal significance to Bougainville. The formula for the division of royalties already gives 20% to the landowners and 80% to the local government, leaving nothing to the central government. The biggest source of mining revenue is company taxation, the distribution of which Mr Kabui agrees must be negotiated with the national government. But the PNG government is worried, regardless of the financial implications, that the inexperienced ABG will be hoodwinked by the unscrupulous international mining companies waiting in the wings. That may indeed be a real danger, but a peace settlement that provides for autonomy should leave room for Bougainvilleans to learn to handle tough negotiations by themselves. 