Business this weekThe latest American employment statistics raised fears of an interest-rate hike by the Federal Reserve, rattling Wall Street and some overseas stockmarkets. Unemployment remained steady in July at 4.3%, but hourly wages rose faster and the economy added more non-farm jobs than expected. In Britain, too, employment figures exceeded expectations and spooked the markets. Unemployment fell to 4.3% in July, a 19-year low, and the Bank of England came out with a hawkish statement that inflation might overshoot its target of 2.5% in the longer term. See article: The economy on the turnThe Bank of Japan released figures showing a big decline in bank lending to Japanese companies, suggesting that the country's economy remains fragile. Outstanding loans in July by Japanese banks were 6% below the figures of a year ago, after sliding for 19 consecutive months. America's Commerce Department has thrown out a plea for anti-dumping duties. It rejected a claim by independent oil producers that Mexico, Venezuela, Saudi Arabia and Iraq were selling oil at unfairly low prices in America. The German economy appears to be recovering faster than expected. Exports surged ahead by 4.6% in June, compared with a year earlier. The country's trade surplus grew to euro6.95 billion ($7.21 billion). However, industrial production in June was unchanged from May and has been almost flat since March.  Thailand announced a $3 billion fiscal package to stimulate economic recovery. Much of this will take the form of equity funds and business loans to companies. Canada's Alcan, France's Pechiney and Switzerland's Algroup agreed a three-way merger to form an aluminium giant, to be called APA, that will have revenues of about $22 billion. The new group will rival the world's biggest aluminium maker, American-based Alcoa, which on the same day launched a bid for Reynolds Metals, the world's number three. That combination's revenues would be about $21 billion. Analysts welcomed this flurry of consolidation in an industry suffering from overcapacity and low prices. See article: Aluminium mergersDeutsche Telekom announced that it would buy the smallest of Britain's four mobile-phone operators, One2One, for PS8.4 billion ($13.6 billion). Deutsche said that the acquisition was part of a wider strategy of global expansion. Separately, One2One will also launch a joint venture with Richard Branson to sell mobile phones through his Virgin stores. Meanwhile, MCIWorldCom, an American telephone company, said it was cutting rates on some long-distance calls to 5 cents a minute. The move could set off another round of price-cutting in the intensely competitive American consumer market. Procter & Gamble, a household-products giant, said it would take over Iams, an American company that makes pet food, for $2.3 billion. P&G plans to use its international presence to sell Iams's top cat-and dog-food brands abroad. Four German blue-chip companies said they would convert their bearer shares to registered shares. Siemens and Deutsche Bank will make the switch later this month, Mannesmann and Dresdner Bank this autumn. Germany's main stockmarket, Deutsche Borse in Frankfurt, welcomed the move, saying it would make the German markets more transparent and align them with other stockmarkets abroad. See article: German banks' industrial stakesBP Amoco reported a 19% rise in second-quarter profits, reflecting higher crude-oil prices and successful cost-cutting. But it said the outlook in refining and chemicals remains tough. The International Energy Agency in Paris forecast that growth in world demand for oil would double next year. After slower growth in 1998 and a slight recovery this year, the market should reach 1.8m barrels a day in 2000. British Airways announced that operating profits for the quarter ending June 30th fell by 46% compared with the same period last year. It blamed overcapacity on North Atlantic routes, price competition from low-cost airlines and higher fuel prices. It announced plans to cut some capacity, including its London-Pittsburgh route. The International Air Transport Association and IBM said they would together develop a universal platform to boost the use of electronic airline tickets. Tito Mboweni became the first black governor of South Africa's central bank. With an eye on currency traders who have been selling the rand since last July, when his appointment was announced, the former labour minister vowed to fight inflation and not to print money. An official study of day-trading--stockmarket speculation by retail investors using the Internet--found that many of the brokers who offer such services use inappropriate "get-rich-quick" marketing and recommended a crackdown. The report came less than two weeks after Mark Barton, an Atlanta day-trader, gunned down nine people after losing on his bets. The Internet shares that many day-traders prefer fell for the fourth straight week in America and Europe. Gigabell, a German Internet service provider, had to price its initial public offering at the bottom of the range. Shares in Exchange Holdings, Britain's second-largest Internet company, fell below their issue price in their first week of trading.See article: The slide in Internet-share prices