Business and AIDSDigging deepAPBut will they take up the offer?FIRST Debswana, the De Beers diamond-mining company in Botswana, did it. Last year it said that any worker infected with HIV would be counselled and offered anti-retroviral drug treatments at the firm's expense. This week a much bigger mining company, Anglo American, said the same. It employs 90,000 people in southern Africa alone, where HIV rates are the highest in the world. A quarter of those staff are probably infected and will be offered AIDS drugs. AngloGold, a subsidiary, will do the same for its 44,000 workers in southern Africa. Other companies, especially labour-intensive mining houses such as De Beers, will come under pressure from unions--and possibly even from their own accountants--to follow suit.South Africa's mining industry has been at the front in calculating the economic impact of HIV on business. AngloGold says the virus adds as much as $6 to the roughly $170-180 overall cost of producing an ounce of gold. A sister company, Anglo American Platinum, says it adds $3 for every ounce of South African platinum. Until now, companies judged it better to shoulder these extra costs, and run education and condom campaigns, than to offer expensive AIDS drugs.Why has that changed? Tony Trahar, Anglo American's chief executive, will not reveal internal estimates of the costs of giving AIDS drugs to his workers, but the company now believes they make financial sense. For one thing, not everyone is expected to take up the offer: only 209 workers and spouses of Debswana's 6,000 employees have done so even though the drugs have been available for more than a year. AngloGold does not expect to roll out its programme before March next year. Furthermore, the prices of many AIDS drugs are dropping fast, and Anglo American is negotiating discounts with various suppliers. Prices would drop further if companies made bulk orders. One worry is that distribution could be as costly as the drugs themselves.The bottom line may not be Anglo American's only motivation, however. This week's publicity coup comes just ahead of a crucial meeting with government officials about a controversial new mining bill. The government is in the process of deciding how much of the mining industry should be moved from white to black ownership, and how soon. By showing itself to be a socially responsible company that helps its mostly black workforce, Anglo American may hope to discourage radical changes.Whatever is behind it, Anglo American's decision will have wide implications. Across Africa, 30m people are infected with HIV, but only 30,000 people use AIDS drugs. All large companies must develop anti-AIDS strategies, and some resort to hiring and training two people for every job, assuming that one will die of the disease. Few firms have so far shown much sign of following Anglo's example and paying to keep their own workers healthy. But if the mining giant can show that such a move pays, financially as well as morally, then it will surely not be the last big company to change its mind. 