Chile's economyIn search of new tricksTHE market price of copper has fallen this year to its lowest in fifteen years, making it cheaper in real terms than it was during the Great Depression of the 1930s. That is bad news for Chile, the world's largest producer. It is Latin America's star economy, having grown at an average annual rate of 7.6% in the ten years to 1998, and claims to lead the region in free-market economic reform. But it remains dangerously dependent on the metal (see chart). Of Chile's total exports, worth $18.2 billion last year, copper accounted for $7.3 billion, or two-fifths. The price of copper averaged 82 cents a pound last year, but the world economy's troubles brought it down to 60 cents last month. Largely because of that, Chile is suffering an economic slowdown: GDP is set to grow by just 3.1% this year and 2.2% next, according to the Economist Intelligence Unit, a sister company of The Economist. And Chileans are now worrying about whether they should, or could, diversify a bit more. Matters might be far worse. Chile's fortunes have risen and fallen with the copper price since it gained independence in 1818. But several changes in recent decades have reduced its vulnerability to swings in the price of the metal. Reforms imposed by the military dictatorship of Augusto Pinochet in the 1970s and 1980s included the fostering by the state of other export industries, including pulp and paper, fruit, wine and farmed fish. Copper's share of total exports has fallen by half since the early 1970s, when plunging prices for the metal brought deep recession. Moreover, Chile's copper industry is itself more efficient than it used to be. Although General Pinochet preserved Codelco, the state-owned mining giant, he also readmitted foreign mining companies. Finding copper deposits and then developing a mine can take more than a decade. It was not until the 1990s that the presence of efficient foreign miners forced Codelco to shape up, cutting its production costs and putting it in a better position to withstand low copper prices. An additional bonus is that, unusually for Latin America, Chile's government operates a counter-cyclical fiscal policy. Since 1989, whenever the copper price has risen above what is presumed to be its long-term average, the government has put part of its earnings from Codelco into a stabilisation fund. When the price falls below the trend, the government can draw on the fund to make up its revenue shortfall. Chile's sound finances--the country has an investment-grade credit rating--meant that the government had no difficulty in topping up the fund through a recent international bond issue, despite the pall cast over Latin American credit markets by Argentina's near-default. Worries about Argentina, combined with copper's weakness, caused Chile's peso to lose a fifth of its value between January and October, before strengthening last month. Not bad, but might be better. The share of copper in total exports stopped falling in the early 1990s. That coincided with a slowdown in the pace of economic reform, after democracy had been restored in 1990. Only now is Chile freeing its capital markets, for example. Until this year, foreigners had to seek permission to invest in the country and pay a special tax. But a labour law approved this year raises the cost of laying workers off. Employers complain that this will inhibit job growth and keep unemployment stuck at its current 10%. A bill to cut the stifling bureaucracy that inhibits the growth of new businesses is making slow progress in Congress. It takes 18 months and 72 procedures to get permission to open a supermarket, says Leonardo Suarez of Larrain Vial, a stockbroker. Chile's centre-left government would like more foreign companies to open plants. It is still smarting from losing an Intel microchip plant to Costa Rica in 1996. Chile now intends to offer tax breaks to foreign investors. It might be better to promote the country's advantages as a place to do business, argues Felipe Larrain, of Santiago's Catholic University. These include low taxes and import tariffs, political stability and good universities. But technical education is poor: "Hiring managers is no problem here but just try finding someone to operate a machine tool," says Alexander Newman, president of Electromecanica, an engineering company. Cheaper training schemes are needed, and an effort to change the attitudes of parents and teachers, who instil in youngsters the idea that office work, however humble, carries more prestige than being a technician, however well paid.A more direct way of reducing Chile's exposure to copper would be to sell Codelco, investing the proceeds in broadening the economy further. But privatisation is tricky--not least because the armed forces receive a slice of Codelco's revenues. Better to start by selling a minority stake, says Juan Villarzu, Codelco's boss. In the 1980s, copper seemed likely to be displaced by optical fibre. But the boom in electronics meant that demand increased. Mr Villarzu, as might be expected of the world's top copper salesman, is convinced that the metal has a shiny future. In 1990, cars contained an average of 12kg (26lb) of copper. Now, the typical model is stuffed with electronics and has more than 17kg of copper, he points out. That is another reason why Chile's copper problem is one that many of its less fortunate neighbours would love to have. On the other hand, the biggest threat facing Chile is its temptation to rest on its copper-plated laurels. 