Chile's minersA worrying precedentWITH the world price of copper, Chile's main export, running at over twice its average last year, the government's coffers are brimming with record revenues. So are the balance-sheets of its private mining companies. Chile is the world's biggest producer of copper and the country's inhabitants, with an average annual income of just $7,000, despite years of solid growth, are eager for their share of the windfall. AFPThe mood may prove catchingLarge mines, including those of the state copper company Codelco, pay some of the country's highest wages, averaging $40,000. But, on August 7th, workers at Escondida, the world's largest copper mine, downed tools in a push for even higher pay. It did not help that, soon after the strike started, Escondida's controller, BHP Billiton, reported first-half profits for the mine of close to $3 billion, more than triple its profits in the same period last year and equal to almost 3% of Chile's GDP.After a 25-day strike that cost the company around $200m in lost profits, Escondida's miners returned to work on September 2nd, but only after obtaining a deal that, according to union officials, makes them the highest-paid in South America. Given that Chile's miners are already the best-off in the region, that may not be such a remarkable achievement. But it has set a precedent that is worrying other Chilean mining companies.The deal includes not only a 5% real wage increase but also generous new education, health-care and housing benefits, an end-of-strike bonus worth an after-tax $4,600 and, in a new departure for Chile's mining industry, a bonus of $12,000 on account of high copper prices. "It sets a whole new standard for future wage negotiations throughout Chile's mining industry," says Cesar Perez-Novoa, of Celfin Capital, a local investment bank. Wages within the industry tend to keep pretty much in line, he adds, because skilled mining labour is in short supply. But the biggest concern is for Codelco, which produces a tenth of the world's copper. Before the end of the year, it faces negotiations at two of its main mines. Its production costs have been rising steeply and the government has indicated that it wants to hold down wage increases, a task that will now be doubly difficult.Although Codelco's rising costs are partly due to a drop in ore grades, industry officials also blame the company itself for having shied away from the political costs of firing inefficient workers under the previous government. Whatever the reasons, Chileans would take a dim view of a generous strike-averting wage settlement. Getting a favourable deal out of a foreign company is fair play; getting it at the expense of a company they regard as theirs is quite another matter, particularly when the government has insisted that, for the sake of economic stability, Chile should save most of its copper windfall. Codelco is not the only flank the government has to defend. The country's secondary-school children, who went on strike earlier this year calling for copper income to be used to improve state education, are still dissatisfied and, together with the teachers, are threatening further protests. Then there are the demands of state health-care workers, civil servants, employees of the state bank and of the national television channel, all eager to get their share of the windfall. President Michelle Bachelet helped open the floodgates when, during last year's election, she promised Chileans a greater stake in the benefits of economic growth. No one expected then that copper prices would reach their present heights. Ms Bachelet must be wondering whether they are not, after all, a mixed blessing. 