China's gold rushCracking the vaultTHERE has been no shortage over the past two decades of would-be foreign gold diggers rushing into China in search of treasure. But for most of that time China's gold industry itself was off limits to outsiders, with mining and refining controlled by parochial and xenophobic state officials. Indeed, much of China's gold production was traditionally shrouded in secrecy and managed by the military. Now, foreign operators are finally getting a foot in the vault. And an enticing place it is. Gold prices continue to soar and China is the world's fourth-largest producer, with output rising 5.9% last year.Among the foreign "operators" are billions of bacteria slaving away in 12 metre-tall vats of roiling black gloop at the BioGold refinery in the Shandong gold-mining town of Laizhou. Brought in by Michelago, an Australian mining firm, the bacteria reproduce like mad while consuming the sulphur and arsenic present in refractory ore. These industrious bugs help winnow each tonne of dull ore down to 50 grams of shiny gold, which the plant, a joint venture between Michelago and the Shandong Tarzan Mining Co, sells on the Shanghai Gold Exchange. The establishment of that exchange, less than three years ago, was the first step in opening China's gold sector, and was followed by lifting controls on private domestic gold consumption, and a gradual--but so far partial--easing of restrictions on foreign participation in exploration, mining and refining. Gold export restrictions remain, but domestic demand looks like staying strong. Chinese consumption grew 13% last year to 234 tonnes, well above the 212 tonnes produced domestically. But China's annual per person consumption is only 0.16 grams, less than a quarter of the world average. Together with a handful of Canadian and other Australian firms now working in China, Michelago sees immense opportunity, especially because of high fragmentation and low efficiency among Chinese producers. The government says a quarter of China's 4,000 tonnes of deposits cannot be exploited without foreign technologies. All but 100 of China's 1,200 gold mines produce less than 500 kilograms annually and Michelago thinks that average production per enterprise is less than a third that amount. It is the smaller producers that interest foreign investors most, since they lack the scale to refine efficiently themselves. Michelago also thinks that foreigners could benefit from the fact that around two-thirds of Chinese gold ore is high in sulphur and arsenic content. Traditional heat-roasting techniques are highly polluting, and as Chinese environmental regulations become more rigorous, the competitive advantage of cleaner foreign operators only grows. That trend is most pronounced in prosperous coastal areas like Shandong. The province has already shut most of its roasters, meaning Australian bacteria should have ample opportunity to keep reproducing--and reaping gold--in China. 