China's steel industryPile upTROUBLE is brewing as the April 1st deadline approaches for the conclusion of the annual negotiations between China and its main foreign suppliers of iron ore. In February China's largest steelmaker, Baosteel, struck a deal with Vale, a Brazilian mining giant. But negotiations have dragged on with the other two big suppliers, Rio Tinto and BHP Billiton, both of which have large operations in Australia. Things are now starting to get dirty.In recent weeks, stories have circulated about ships filled with Australian iron ore being unable to get the import licences they need to sell their cargo on China's spot market, where prices are two or three times higher than the contract rate. Licences are still being issued for shipments from India and Brazil. It would be a violation of numerous international trade rules if China were to discriminate overtly against Australian shipments. But the applications for licences are not formally being denied. Instead, they have fallen victim to unexplained delays.BHP Billiton has had a shipment held up in Australia; Rio Tinto is reported to have had delays in China. So far this has not materially affected earnings, so no public statements have been made, but the skirmish is being closely watched. Reports in the Chinese media suggest that the government is deliberately blocking the Australian shipments. That has not been confirmed by Chinese authorities, but it has not been denied either. Many in the industry conclude that this means China wants a message to get through.The stand-off is largely a result of the staggering price increases for commodities caused by China's voracious demand. Supplies procured at the contract rate meet only 35% of its needs, according to Merrill Lynch, an investment bank. In the year to the end of March, iron ore went for $50 a tonne. For the next year, Vale will receive over $80 for a tonne of top-grade ore. Rio Tinto and BHP Billiton want an even higher price, on the basis that it costs the Chinese less to ship ore from Australia.On the face of it, the Chinese do not have a strong bargaining position, since the alternative to agreeing on a fixed-contract price is to buy on the spot market, where low-quality Chinese iron ore sells for $200 a tonne and low-quality Indian ore sells for $226. In response to this obvious opportunity, Rio began selling Australian ore on China's spot market in December, annoying the Chinese authorities, who fear costs will spiral out of control.Delaying incoming Australian shipments will, of course, also hurt Chinese steelmakers, but nothing in China is ever simple. Among the odd short-term beneficiaries of high spot prices are the big steelmakers, which are thought to receive most, if not all, of the supplies delivered under long-term contracts. They can then resell ore, at spot prices, to the smaller Chinese firms, making a profit and undermining their competitors at the same time. Meanwhile, stockpiles of ore at ports have been steadily growing, according to Mysteel.net, a trade publication based in Shanghai (see chart). This may indicate that industrial demand in China is slowing down. At the very least, it would explain why China feels it can turn away supplies. 