Cold-Rolled Steel From China Slapped With 265% Anti-Dumping DutiesThe Department of Commerce today announced its affirmative preliminary determinations in the anti-dumping duty investigations of imports of cold-rolled steel flat products from Brazil, China, India, Japan, South Korea, Russia, and the United Kingdom.Free Sample Report: Our February Metal Buying OutlookIn the Brazil investigation, mandatory respondent Companhia Siderurgica Nacional received a calculated preliminary dumping margin of 38.93%. The second mandatory respondent, Usiminas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais, did not respond to all of Commerce's requests for information, and therefore received a dumping margin based on adverse facts available. Usiminas and all other producers/exporters in Brazil also received a preliminary dumping margin of 38.93%.In the China investigation, no company responded to Commerce's requests for information. Accordingly, all producers/exporters in China received a whopping preliminary dumping margin of 265.79%, based on adverse facts available.In the India investigation, the sole mandatory respondent JSW Steel Limited/JSW Coated Products Limited received a preliminary dumping margin of 6.78%. All other producers/exporters in India received a preliminary dumping margin of 6.78%.In the Japan investigation, mandatory respondents JFE Steel Corporation and Nippon Steel & Sumitomo Metal Corporation did not respond to Commerce's requests for information. Accordingly, both mandatory respondents received a preliminary dumping margin of 71.35%, based on adverse facts available. All other producers/exporters in Japan received a preliminary dumping margin of 71.35%.In the South Korea investigation, mandatory respondents POSCO/Daewoo International Corporation and Hyundai Steel Corporation received preliminary dumping margins of 6.89% and 2.17%, respectively. All other producers/exporters in Korea received a preliminary dumping margin of 4.53%.In the Russia investigation, mandatory respondents Joint Stock Company Severstal and Novolipetsk Steel OJSC received preliminary dumping margins of 12.62% and 16.89%, respectively. All other producers/exporters in Russia received a preliminary dumping margin of 14.76%.In the United Kingdom investigation, mandatory respondents Caparo Precision Strip, Ltd. and Tata Steel UK Ltd. received preliminary dumping margins of 5.79% and 31.39%, respectively. All other producers/exporters in the UK received a preliminary dumping margin of 28.03%.As a result of the preliminary affirmative determinations, Commerce will instruct U.S. Customs and Border Protection to require cash deposits based on these preliminary rates.Commerce also preliminarily found that critical circumstances exist with respect to certain exporters from China, Japan, and Russia. Where critical circumstances were found, CBP will be instructed to impose provisional measures retroactively on entries of cold rolled steel flat products effective 90 days prior to publication of the preliminary determinations in the Federal Register.The petitioners for these investigations are AK Steel Corporation, ArcelorMittal USA LLC, Nucor Corporation, Steel Dynamics, Inc., and United States Steel Corporation.Free Download: The February 2016 MMI ReportThe products covered by these investigations are certain cold-rolled (cold-reduced), flat-rolled steel products, whether or not annealed, painted, varnished, or coated with plastics or other non-metallic substances.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service