CommoditiesA copper-bottomed boomCOMMODITY prices are showing new zest. Copper, often seen as a harbinger of economic trends, is trading in the futures market at 30-month highs. The formerly boring market for nickel is at a three-year high. The price of platinum is at a 20-year peak: the car industry, one of its biggest consumers, is turning out lots of vehicles, if unprofitably. Gold fetches more than it has for seven years.Not so long ago, in the 1990s, the long decline of commodity prices seemed to be supporting a pleasant new world of strong growth and low inflation. In those days, as stockmarkets boomed, the word "commodity" took on a new meaning. American business consultants, in the age of the new economy, took to using the C-word as a pejorative for almost any product, service or skill that had become standardised (or just looked as if it might) and thus doomed to low margins and shrinking prices. Now that the share bubble has burst and a recent surge of interest in bonds has waned, commodity markets are again having their day.The Economist's industrial commodity-price index, which since 1864 has tracked the prices of stuff dug out of the ground, forged and smelted, has risen by 25% since the start of 2002 in dollar terms (see chart). In part, this increase seems to reflect growing confidence about global economic growth. Commodities are the first part of the manufacturing chain, and serve as a leading indicator of a pick-up in production. But by no means all of the rise in commodity prices can be chalked up to brighter growth forecasts.Currency movements have also had a marked effect on commodity prices. The dollar's weakness over the past year, not to mention in the past few weeks, has done much to flatter commodity markets. Most commodity prices are quoted in dollars, whether they are traded in London or mined in Lusaka. For buyers of commodities in America, for example, prices certainly look higher. Buyers in the euro zone, however, are enjoying lower prices in terms of their own currency than at the beginning of 2002. Prices in yen are only a little higher than at the start of last year.Those currency effects are also at work, albeit in a slightly different fashion, in the gold market, which has perhaps caught most attention recently. Gold bugs have been triumphant as the yellow metal has brushed almost $400 an ounce, a price not seen since the mid-1990s. Traditionally, gold has been thought to be a hedge against inflation. With inflationary risks low, this scarcely explains its recent popularity. More likely, the rise in the gold price says more about the dollar than about gold. In euro terms, for example, gold prices have barely budged. The rising prices for base metals, such as copper, nickel and aluminium, are probably more significant. These owe much to a manufacturing rebound in Asia, especially in China. As production increases to meet the requirements of recovering global growth, demand for metals of all sorts is also growing. According to Capital Economics, a London consultancy, the full implications of growing demand from China and from rich countries are not yet reflected fully in commodity prices.By raising commodity prices, China's booming economy has also helped those of other poor countries, which have long suffered as the prices of their main exports have withered. Chile and Peru have benefited from copper's rise. Buoyant nickel prices are a big boon to Russia. Dearer gold and platinum help African miners. The government of Ghana, for example, stands to earn a great deal more from the sale of its stake in Ashanti Goldfields, a mining company, than it did just a few months ago, thanks to rising gold prices.For all the optimism, however, there is reason to be wary of claims that this is the beginning of a long bull run in commodities. In commodities, every bull market contains the seeds of its own destruction. Vietnamese coffee producers planted seedlings in the early 1990s, when prices were robust. As their harvests began to grow later in the decade, prices slumped. Much the same is true in metals industries, where rising prices lead to the opening of previously shuttered mines. Even as the gold market rises, it is watching for sales by central banks. Much of the recent increase in base-metal prices reflects producers' slow response to signs that the global economy is picking up. When they do respond, a flood of new output is to be expected, followed by falling prices. Oil has so far been the only commodity whose producers have been able to prop up prices by maintaining a cartel. One extra factor pushing prices upwards is speculative buying. Hedge funds, in particular, have been keen. Many such investors, as well as more staid pension funds, whose staple fare is equities and bonds, have noted commodities' new allure and have piled in. Their bets are made easier by recently constructed indices in steel and gold. Some also suspect that hedge funds have increased the volatility of some markets: last year, a fund called Armajaro was reported to have taken a huge stake in the global cocoa market, just as prices reached 15-year highs. But mostly, their impact should be the opposite. The greater liquidity provided by such investors should reduce volatility, smoothing out any demand shocks.Whatever the role of hedge funds, once institutional investors have piled into such "alternative" assets, it should mean that the end of the bull market cannot be too far away. Nevertheless, if the dollar continues to slide, prices could continue to rise in dollar terms for some time yet.