Commodities get bigFIRST came Big Oil: now there will be Big Commodities. Two years ago, the American market alone had four big copper producers. The top three copper-mining firms in the world controlled only a third of the world's supply outside China and the former Soviet Union. This week, it emerged that Phelps Dodge is bidding $3 billion for two American rivals, Asarco and Cyprus Amax. If it succeeds, it will dominate the American market--and, with Chile's Codelco and Australia's BHP, the world market as well.There has of late been a flurry of such deal-making in all sorts of commodities businesses. Last year, the value of metals mergers soared to $25 billion, from $12 billion in 1996. Raw Materials Group, a consultancy, reckons it could top $30 billion this year. In aluminium, Canada's Alcan recently announced a $9.6 billion deal to swallow France's Pechiney and Switzerland's Algroup; America's Alcoa retaliated with a $5.8 billion hostile bid for Reynolds Metals, a smaller compatriot. Alcoa and Alcan together could soon control nearly four-fifths of the western world's capacity. In basic chemicals, America's Air Products and France's Air Liquide took over Britain's recalcitrant BOC, and America's Union Carbide quietly sold itself to rival Dow Chemical. In the paper and pulp business, International Paper has gobbled up Union Camp, and Georgia-Pacific has swallowed Unisource.The result promises to be a big change in the shape of the business. Commodity industries used to be fragmented, with a few giants, such as Rio Tinto, that were conglomerates with a range of businesses across a variety of countries. But the new giants will be specialised companies dominant in their particular commodities. What is driving this consolidation? Partly it is the result of years of falling prices, with a particularly steep slump, until recently, over the past four years (see chart). The Economist's metals index is down by 36% in nominal terms since its most recent peak in January 1995. And that, combined with the industry's reluctance to cut capacity, has meant rotten returns for shareholders.According to Morningstar, a financial-research firm, average total annual returns over the past decade on investments in American mining, paper and chemicals firms were only 6-8%; the overall S&P 500 index of industrial shares, in contrast, yielded 17%. The performance gap has been growing; it has more than doubled over the past three years. Understandably, investors have been stampeding out of most commodity shares. The exceptions have been a few large, focused firms, such as Dow and Alcoa, that investors see as likely consolidators.Commodity companies are also under pressure from their customers. As the big buyers, such as the car industry, globalise, they are pushing their suppliers to squeeze costs and to go global themselves. In recent months, big customers such as GM and Boeing have started pushing suppliers of aluminium and steel to sign unusually long-term global contracts, often including clauses agreeing year-on-year price decreases for materials. Such pressure is likely to increase.At the same time, markets are getting more efficient. Of course, since the early days of the spice trade, commodities have been global businesses. But protectionism and lack of information have often sheltered weaker firms. That is becoming less and less possible. Privatisation and market liberalisation in Latin America and Asia, and the collapse of the former Soviet Union, have unleashed many low-priced producers on to the world market. And, increasingly, commodities are traded electronically. The more perfect the market, the greater the pressure to keep prices and costs down. So how will this consolidation affect customers of raw materials? Is the decades-long decline in prices likely to be checked? David Benello of McKinsey, a management consultancy, has studied the link between pricing and consolidation in resource industries. He argues that if an industry has more than six firms, as many commodity industries now do, perfect competition prevails. But with four or less, pricing will be affected even if no overt collusion takes place. Without cut-throat competition forcing them to pass on cost savings made possible by productivity gains, he reckons, the emerging super-majors will start pocketing them as profits.Others argue that there will be no such automatic windfall. Marshall Acuff, of Salomon Smith Barney, an investment bank, believes that excessive capital investment during the past decade has resulted in so much overcapacity in many commodity industries that the new giants will not be able to boost their margins unless they start cutting back capacity.However, cutting capacity goes against the grain in commodities. "Old paper mills never die," goes the saying in the pulp business. "They just get bought by somebody else." In these capital-intensive industries, bosses have tended always to respond to low prices by cranking out yet another tonne of product, pushing prices down further.Kent Dolby of Andersen Consulting thinks that any cost savings gained through mergers will inevitably be sucked out by demanding customers, unless firms radically rethink this "extra tonne" mentality. Not, of course, that the old hands of the business are idiots: their desire to go for volume makes sense--for each one individually, even if nonsense collectively--if, as is common in capital-intensive industries, overheads are thought of as more or less fixed. But Mr Dolby argues that this way of looking at things ignores the leap in marginal costs as a factory gets to the last 2-5% of output. He calculates that "de-bottlenecking" factories to produce that extra tonne often boosts the marginal cost of the extra output by 50-200%. There are signs that a few industry leaders are beginning to accept this view and to reject the conventional wisdom. The biggest chemical makers, for example, have designed their latest plants to operate flexibly and profitably below full capacity. International Paper, the world's largest paper firm, claims that it has revolutionised its production system by concentrating on variable rather than fixed costs, and as a result expects to save $100m a year--by judiciously refusing to produce paper. The few companies that emerge as winners will doubtless be stronger than the many that are floundering today. But that will not be because they can count on price increases to boost profits, but because they are learning to rationalise capacity by judging which extra tonnes are worth producing. In that sense, this consolidation could prove to be a boon to commodity producers--the ones that survive it. 