Democrat Will Try to Add Gas Tax Hike to House Infrastructure BillA possible obstacle to quick passage of an infrastructure bill, a gas tax hike, could be introduced today in the House of Representatives and platinum and palladium exchange-traded funds have seen a huge outflow this year as prices fell.Democratic Rep. Earl Blumenauer of Oregon hopes to attach a proposed 15-cent-per-gallon fuel-tax increase to the $325 billion transportation-spending bill the House will look at this week. "My amendment will not only fully fund H.R. 3763, but also provide enough revenue to increase investment above the current, anemic levels of spending," he said.Free Sample Report: Our Annual Metal Buying OutlookHis proposal would hike the current 1.84-cent federal gas tax to 33.4 cents per gallon. State taxes on top of that would put the total tax bill on a gallon of gasoline over 50 cents in some states. The House Rules Committee is scheduled to consider amendments to the highway bill this afternoon.Full passage in the House could come as early as this week as leadership has said they would like to get a full bill to the President's desk by Thanksgiving. A similar bill has already passed the Senate but would need to go through a conference committee to eliminate differences between the two proposals.Platinum- and palladium-backed exchange-traded funds tracked by Reuters are facing their biggest monthly outflows since the data series began in 2010, after prices of the white metals slid to multi-year lows earlier this year.Free Download: The October MMI ReportPlatinum-backed funds have seen outflows of just over 160,000 ounces so far in October, taking their holdings to their lowest since early 2014 at 2.232 million ounces.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service