DOC Issues Final Affirmative Determination on Steel Flanges From IndiaThe U.S. Department of Commerce. qingwa/Adobe StockThe U.S. Department of Commerce (DOC) announced this week that it had made a final affirmative determination in its anti-dumping and countervailing duty investigations of steel flanges imported from India.Need buying strategies for steel? Try two free months of MetalMiner's OutlookStainless steel flanges from India were sold in the U.S. at less than fair value, ranging from 19.16% to 145.25%, according to the DOC. In addition, the DOC determined India has providing countervailable subsidies to its producers of stainless steel flanges, at rates ranging from 4.92% to 256.16%.Imports of stainless steel flanges from India were valued at $44 million in 2017, according to the DOC. In 2015, the U.S. imported 10,584 metric tons of the product from India, coming in at a value of just over $54.8 million. That dropped to 8,031 metric tons in 2016 ($32.1 million) before moving back up to 10,975 metric tons last year.The petitioners in the case were the Coalition of American Flange Producers and its two members: Core Pipe Products, Inc. (of Carol Stream, Illinois) and Maass Flange Corporation (of Houston, Texas).The case now moves to the U.S. International Trade Commission, which is expected to make a final determination by Sept. 24. If it also rules in the affirmative, the DOC will issue anti-dumping and countervailing duty orders.MetalMiner's Annual Outlook provides 2018 buying strategies for carbon steelThe ruling marks a continuation of the Trump administration's aggressive stance on trade. According to the DOC release, the Trump administration to date has launched 120 new anti-dumping or countervailing duty investigation, marking a 216% increase in such cases compared with the same time period during the Obama administration.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service