DOC Makes Preliminary Anti-Dumping Determination on Steel Wheels from ChinaThe U.S. Department of Commerce (DOC) last week made a preliminary affirmative determination in an anti-dumping probe related to imports of steel wheels from China.Need buying strategies for steel? Request your two-month free trial of MetalMiner's Outlook"Today, the U.S. Department of Commerce announced the affirmative preliminary determination in the antidumping duty (AD) investigation of imports of steel wheels 12 to 16.5 inches in diameter from China, finding that exporters from China have been dumping certain steel wheels in the United States at margins ranging from 38.27 to 44.35 percent," the DOC announced.The case was prompted by a petition from Elkhart, Indiana-based Dexstar Wheel, a division of Americana Development, Inc.According to the DOC, imports of steel wheels from China in 2017 were valued at $87.2 million. By volume, the U.S. imported 42,195 metric tons of the product in 2015, which jumped to 46,264 metric tons in 2016 and 50,656 metric tons in 2017, according to a DOC fact sheet.The department calculated dumping margins of 38.27% for Changzhou Chungang Machinery Co., Ltd and a 44.35% China-wide margin.The scope of the investigation included "certain on-the-road steel wheels, discs, and rims for tubeless tires with a nominal wheel diameter of 12 inches to 16.5 inches, regardless of width."The next step is a final determination by the DOC, scheduled to come down by July 2, 2019. If the DOC rules in the affirmative again and the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) also issues a final affirmative determination, the DOC will then issue an anti-dumping order.The ITC is scheduled to make its final determination by Aug. 15, 2019.MetalMiner's Annual Outlook provides 2019 buying strategies for carbon steelAccording to the DOC, the Trump administration has initiated 157 new anti-dumping and countervailing duty investigations, marking a 283% increase from investigations launched during the equivalent period of the previous administration.Trade talks aiming at a resolution to trade differences between the U.S. and China are ongoing. Reuters reported the next round of talks is scheduled for April 30 in Beijing, with additional talks scheduled for May 8 in Washington, D.C.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service