DOC Issues Preliminary Affirmative Determination in Forged Steel Fittings CaseThe U.S. Department of Commerce. qingwa/Adobe StockAmid the hubbub caused by President Trump's recent Section 232 proclamation on steel and aluminum tariffs, the Department of Commerce issued an affirmative preliminary determination on Thursday in the countervailing subsidy case of forged steel fittings from China.Need buying strategies for steel? Try two free months of MetalMiner's OutlookThe Department of Commerce ruled that the fittings from China have benefited from countervailable subsidies of 13.79%."We will continue to review all information related to this preliminary determination while standing up for American workers and companies," Secretary of Commerce Wilbur Ross said in a release.The petitioners in the case are the Bonney Forge Corporation (of Mount Union, Pa.), and the United Steel, Paper and Forestry, Rubber, Manufacturing, Energy, Allied Industrial and Service Workers International Union (of Pittsburgh, Pa.). According to the Department of Commerce, imports of forged steel fittings in 2016 amounted to a value of approximately $78.4 million.The Department of Commerce calculated the 13.79% countervailable subsidy rate for mandatory respondent Both-Well (Taizhou) Steel Fittings Co., Ltd.Want to a see Cold Rolled price forecast? Get two monthly reports for free!The Department of Commerce is scheduled to make a final determination in the case July 23. After that, the U.S. International Trade Commission is scheduled to make its final determination Sept. 6, after which an order would be issued should both bodies reach affirmative final determinations.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service