Doing business in ZimbabweAasvoels circlingIF THE best time to invest is when blood is in the streets, Zimbabwe offers a promising opportunity. The country is in the throes of political upheaval, with 6m hungry people, an inflation rate of 135% and a shrinking economy. The rule of law is collapsing. Judges are routinely intimidated. The government sends thugs to grab commercial farms. And fears are growing of much worse civil strife to come. Enter the bargain hunters--call them aasvoels, Afrikaans for vultures. Zimbabwe boasts vast quantities of valuable minerals, including one of the world's largest deposits of platinum. South Africa's Impala Platinum recently upped its shareholding to take effective control of Zimbabwe Platinum Mines. It has also increased its stake in a smaller platinum company, Mimosa. Platinum sells for $574 an ounce, and the low costs of mining it in Zimbabwe mean that both ventures are too tempting to pass up, despite the political risk, says Keith Rumble, Impala's boss. Zimbabwe's fuel and energy shortages are also tempting outsiders. President Robert Mugabe's Libyan allies have just renewed an annual $360m deal to cover most of the costs of importing oil. The Libyan government will get assets once owned by the Zimbabwean state, including 14% of Jewel Bank and 14% in Rainbow, a tourism group, and maybe some land. Talks are said to be under way to give Libya control of fuel tanks in Harare and a strategically vital oil pipeline linking Zimbabwe to a port in Mozambique. Eskom, South Africa's energy utility, the world's fifth biggest, is eyeing Zimbabwe's energy giant, Zesa, which is slated to be privatised. Zesa is far short of the $200m or so in hard currency it needs each year to pay for equipment and to service debts accrued to Eskom, which supplies electricity to Zimbabwe's grid. The South African supplier may hope eventually to swap debts for a share in the Zimbabwean company, and is building a close partnership. Zesa is increasingly reliant on the support of its South African big brother.Most South African companies are understandably wary of doing business in Zimbabwe--until recently South Africa's biggest African trading partner but now down to third place. Anglo American is reducing its investment in its citrus and timber estates there, though it plans to retain its much more lucrative mining interests. Other large trading firms still see opportunities. Last year Barloworld bought a Zimbabwean cement and lime producer. South African Breweries is keeping its 25% stake in Delta, a beverage company. "There is huge consumer spending power in this market for trading companies. Often people here have money for goods, but nothing to buy," says John Robertson, an independent economist in Harare. The World Food Programme expects to spend one-fifth of its $500m food budget on transporting grain within the region, about half of it in Zimbabwe. Private-sector haulage firms, many of them South African, charge up to $90 for every tonne shifted. Other private traders are finding original ways to get goods to Zimbabwean consumers. Two online firms, Sadza.com and Emoneytransport.com, let well-wishers overseas send money and food to relatives in Zimbabwe via local supermarkets. The situation is desperate for most, but a few firms may have reason to smile.