Europe’s largest steelworksJobs v healthA TWO-MONTH struggle between a court in Taranto, a city in southern Italy, and Ilva, a steelmaker that owns a large plant there, swung sharply against the firm on September 26th when a judge ruled that the plant--Europe's largest steelworks-- must close. In 2011 it produced well over 8m tonnes of steel products, accounting on its own for about one third of the total steel production in Italy.Environmental pollution and public health are the issues at the heart of the legal battle which began at the end of July when the court ordered that eight members of the plant's senior management should be placed under house arrest and parts of the plant put under control of judicial custodians. The decision was based on three years of investigations into the health effects of the plant's emissions. Cases of cancer and cardiac problems had been found to be notably higher near the plant than elsewhere in Taranto. Moreover, and unsurprisingly given these findings, the judge was also worried about the health of workers at the plant. Covering 15 square kilometres, the steelworks is the biggest plant in an extensive industrial zone west of Taranto that includes an oil refinery, a chemicals plant and a large cement works. Towering plumes of smoke from the steelworks become visible for travellers along Italy's instep coast long before reaching Taranto. One project of many aimed at industrialising and taking employment to Italy's impoverished Mezzogiorno, Taranto's plant was inaugurated in 1965. Once owned by a state holding corporation, Ilva was privatised in 1995 when it was bought by the Riva Group, its current owners.The judge's ruling in July covered much of the steelworks (including the raw materials storage area, scrap management, the coking plant and blast furnaces) and required that work there should cease. Ilva immediately appealed against the order and the chairman of Confindustria, Italy's employers' association, expressed concern that closure would not only hurt employment in and around Taranto but industry in Italy generally. Although the government quickly made funds available for cleaning up the site, there are strict limits on how these can be spent and most of the money needed will have to come from the firm.On August 7th an appeals court upheld the plant's seizure, but released five of the managers from house arrest and did not confirm the plant's closure. Although the judge did order the plant to be shut down a week later, it continued to tick over at low levels of production in August and September. On September 18th Ilva announced an environmental improvement plan, saying that it is committed to act immediately to reduce particle and other emissions through an extraordinary investment programme worth about EUR400 million. Yet the judicial custodians told the firm that two of the plant's five blast furnaces and other production areas should be shut down.In the ruling on September 26th the judge describes the firm's clean-up plan as wholly inadequate. She notes that the Ilva's proposed interventions are those that the firm, trade unions and the authorities in Taranto and the surrounding region of Puglia had already agreed on in 2003 and 2004. Many of the improvements should have been completed years ago, she says.Worried about the judge's ruling, Confindustria has spoken up again. "Decisions that lead to the closure of Europe's most important steelworks should be taken in the awareness of the extremely serious consequences that they may create for Italian manufacturing." The economic impact of the legal battle which has led to protests in Taranto (pictured) are certainly enormous. Ilva employs almost 12,000 workers in Taranto and the plant provides jobs, directly and indirectly, to around twice that number. Ilva alone is estimated to contribute about 10% to the GDP in Puglia which, like all southern regions, suffers from considerably higher unemployment than the north of Italy.The story of the steelworks in Taranto is thus the story of a struggle of jobs versus health. Everybody is now looking to Corrado Clini, Italy's environment minister, to find a solution that squares the circle and satisfies the court.