European steelForging aheadBLAME it on the euro. The world market for steel has long suffered from over-capacity, but firms everywhere have stubbornly resisted consolidation. That is, everywhere but Europe, where the mere prospect of the single currency has spurred a wave of mergers. This week appears to have brought yet another euro-inspired union.After days of speculation that had sent its shares rising by over a fifth, British Steel confirmed on June 2nd that it was engaged in serious merger talks with Hoogovens of the Netherlands. Merger may be a polite term, given that British Steel has a market capitalisation three times that of its putative partner. The deal, if consummated, will create the world's third-largest steel firm, with sales of some $16 billion. The two firms have promised to reveal the details of their match-making by June 7th. This is the latest in a series of European steel mergers. In the past two years, Germany's Thyssen and Krupp have merged, France's Usinor has taken over Belgium's Cockerill Sambre, Britain's Ispat has bought parts of Thyssen and Usinor, and Luxembourg's giant Arbed has taken a stake in Spain's Aceralia. In May, Arbed was poised to gobble up Germany's Salzgitter, but nationalist politicians thwarted the deal. It might appear that desperation is one reason for this frenzy of activity. After all, Europe's steel makers are enduring a double blow: prices were already low thanks to sluggish European demand in recent years, but they have been dragged down further by cheap imported steel from Asia and Eastern Europe. Europe's steel production fell by 11% during the first two months of this year; in Germany, it dropped some 20%. Germany's Thyssen Krupp last week announced that its pre-tax profits slid sharply during the past two quarters. France's Usinor also warned this week of imminent losses. But even dire straits have not kept steel firms in other parts of the world from obstructing the long-overdue process of consolidation.The real catalyst for Europe's recent merger wave, say some analysts, is the arrival of the euro. This is because, even by the standards of the industry, Europe's steel market is opaque and inefficient. Accounting practices vary greatly. Prices do too: many grades of steel sell in Denmark for some 15% more than in Germany while, in turn, German prices are often 8-12% higher than those in France. The transparency in pricing forced by the euro is already pushing steel prices down. As it squeezes margins and diminishes currency risk, the euro may well spur further deals like the mooted marriage between British Steel and Hoogovens.But this week's deal is not quite like the other recent steel mergers in Europe. For one thing, both British Steel and Hoogovens are healthy competitors with strong balance sheets. British Steel has such a big cash pile, indeed, that it even promised this week that any Hoogovens deal will include a "return of value" to its own shareholders, raising hopes of a generous share buyback or special dividend payment. Martin Doble of Beddows & Company, an industry consultancy, argues that unlike recent deals involving struggling firms, this is one done from a position of strength. Both firms are among Europe's best, he notes, and have already slashed costs and significantly restructured their businesses. The real merit of the deal comes from the resultant size and economies of scale, necessary to compete in an increasingly globalised steel business. The other big difference is that Britain is not part of the euro zone. And, unlike the euro, sterling has remained strong in recent years. That has hit exporters like British Steel particularly hard: most of its plants are in Britain, but much of its sales are in overseas markets. CEBR, a British economic consultancy, calculated last year that the strong pound added roughly 12% to the British steel industry's costs relative to those of its chief international competitors. Acquiring Hoogovens will diversify British Steel's sales portfolio and diminish its currency risk quite nicely. In the end, it may turn out that British Steel is buying Hoogovens not because of the arrival of the euro, but from the more mundane desire to get its hands on any foreign currency.