Europe’s Steel Industry Worries About Being Section 232 Collateral DamageAndrey Kuzmin/Adobe StackAnxiety is rising among Europe's steelmakers that a potential U.S. plan to levy steel tariffs, on national security grounds, could have a disastrous impact on the region's sales into the market.Benchmark Your Current Metal Price by Grade, Shape and Alloy: See How it Stacks UpReuters reported that the European steel association Eurofer is worried that "....measures potentially stemming from the U.S. section 232 investigation may lead to a proliferation of disastrous global trade flow distortions."Eurofer is worried on two counts. First, it is worried that with China largely already cut out of the U.S. market by anti-dumping legislation, the axe will fall on imports from other regions, of which Europe is a major supplier. Many European countries are already experiencing steep declines in sales to the U.S. between 2015 and 2016 -- in some cases of 50% -- but the largest, Germany, remains the fifth-largest external supplier to the U.S. of flat-rolled products, according to International Trade Administration data.The second worry is that should the investigation support bans or large duties, suppliers in the affected countries will look for alternative mature, high-value markets for their products, namely the EU. This would potentially flood an already overcrowded market with more low-priced material.Having championed free trade in recent statements, Europe may have to eat its own words if it is forced to find ways to counter such a flood. Reuters reports that moves are already afoot, at the G20 summit in Germany last weekend, leaders from the world's 20 leading economies set an August deadline for an OECD-led global forum to compile information about steel overcapacity. That also includes a report on potential solutions, due in November, which could result in the region acting of its own.In reality, Europe may not be the primary target of the president's 232 action. Supplies from Canada, Brazil, Mexico, South Korea, Japan and Russia dwarf those from Europe, but that will not necessarily stop the region from suffering considerable collateral damage.The move would come at an unfortunate time for the European steel industry.After prices rose nearly 50% last year, they have since fallen back some 10% this year, according to Reuters. Demand, however, is recovering with a 1.9% rise forecast for this year, according to Eurofer, suggesting prices could stabilize (although demand growth is expected to ease again next year, with only 1% growth forecast).However, The Guardian reports Europe is also looking at retaliatory measures, should they suffer exclusion or tariffs because of the 232 action. The paper quotes the European Commission president, Jean-Claude Juncker, who is reported to have said that if the U.S. took measures against Germany and China's steel industries, the EU would "react with counter-measures."The article says one industry in the Europeans' crosshairs is Kentucky bourbon, worth $166 million to the state last year and directly employing some 17,500.Kentucky was staunchly supportive of Trump during his campaign, with 62.5% of the electorate voting for him.Free Sample Report: Our Annual Metal Buying Outlook"I am telling you this in the hope that all of this won't be necessary," Juncker said during the G20 summit. "But we are in an elevated battle mood."Bellicose talk, indeed.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service