Face valueSouth Africa's Cuban missileEPAIT IS hard to know what pleased Nicky Oppenheimer most this week. The affable, grey-bearded head of De Beers, a global diamond cartel, is delighted that South Africa's cricketers walloped England's team. Once a keen player, he intones the name of the captain, Graeme Smith, with near religious reverence. But he has another reason to be content. On August 5th he gathered 100 or so of the country's most influential people in the wood-panelled library of Little Brenthurst, his Johannesburg mansion, to hear his plan to reform the country's economy. The Oppenheimer dynasty has presided over South African business for three-quarters of a century, ever since tough old grandfather Ernest won control of the diamond industry that was formed by Cecil Rhodes. Nicky Oppenheimer (some call him "The Cuban" because of that beard) has been in charge since 1998. The family still owns nearly half of De Beers and a chunk of Anglo American, another mining giant with interests in gold, platinum, construction and forestry. Although Anglo has moved its main listing to London, it and the privately owned De Beers are two of the finest jewels in South Africa's economy.So no wonder a top-name crowd came to listen. President Thabo Mbeki brought the heavyweights in his cabinet; the country's most senior business leaders sipped wine and munched canapes; a sprinkling of higher-profile diplomats and newspaper editors paid their respects. Even a former president, F.W. de Klerk, made a rare appearance. Mr Oppenheimer's big idea was couched in jargon about "win-win" strategies and "unique challenges" but comes down to this: the government wants to see more successful black-owned and black-run companies (a process known as "black empowerment" or "transformation"), but local and foreign investors are scared by the government's unclear plans for reaching this goal. "The risk-to-reward ratios are inappropriate. Businesses need certainty, to see clearly the rules of engagement for investing in South Africa," says Mr Oppenheimer. Thus, he argues, clearer rules are needed on exactly what black empowerment means and who pays for it. And firms that take part in the process of transformation should be rewarded with tax breaks.It is far from shocking that a rich businessman thinks that cutting corporate tax will solve any problem, and equally predictable that the Treasury does not share his faith. But few expected that an Oppenheimer, the arch symbol of liberal white privilege, would want to encourage more debate on black empowerment. What is behind his blast of political correctness?Mr Oppenheimer talks of a family tradition of "public service to our country" and being "deeply committed to South Africa and its future." His father, Harry, opposed apartheid, represented a liberal opposition party and long argued that black South Africans must take a fuller part in the economy. That remains the dominant business issue today and Nicky believes that "since it sort of fell upon one, well, you've got to pick up that ball and run with it." His son Jonathan, a director at De Beers, chips in that the "family dynasty" has a special duty.The chairman of De Beers can also afford to put his mind to such higher thoughts. Despite the global economic slowdown, the diamond business is flourishing. The firm delivered a 34% rise in profits in the first six months of this year; it still controls nearly two-thirds of the world's $8 billion rough-diamond market. Mr Oppenheimer hopes he can return to lucrative diamond mines in Angola, and the firm controls all of Botswana's production. Even a long-term cloud over its fortunes may soon lift. Direct operations are forbidden in America, its biggest market, because the cartel breaks antitrust rules. But by sharing operations with LVMH, a luxury-goods group, De Beers may soon be able to open luxury shops and promote its sparkling wares.But there are also more expedient reasons for the Oppenheimers' current interest in good causes. Nicky is learning to turn threats into opportunities. A few years ago De Beers most feared an international consumer-boycott campaign by activists who said that diamond-trading fuelled civil wars in Sierra Leone, Angola and Congo. Instead of opposing them, De Beers helped to draw up the Kimberley Process, a scheme backed by the United Nations for regulating and tracing the production of diamonds. By the end of July, 54 diamond-producing countries were listed as part of the process. Others will be excluded from legal trading. That helps to keep the industry clean--and bolsters De Beers's image. By pushing aside irregular traders, it also helpfully allows De Beers to keep a tight grip on the global supply.Just as engagement worked globally for conflict diamonds, he hopes it will work now for black empowerment in South Africa. De Beers and other mining companies do not like tough legal measures that compel change. Mr Oppenheimer points to last year's mining charter that sets a target for 26% of mining capital to be in black hands by 2013. Bungled talks about that and the release of an early draft scared away 11 billion rand ($1.5 billion) of investors' money over six months in 2002, he says. Now the government seems intent on expropriating all natural resources on behalf of the state, and will soon claim royalties of between 2% and 8% on revenues earned from different minerals. The Treasury will announce the details soon, and the diamond industry is bracing itself for the highest tariff of 8%. Further troubles loom. A legal campaign by activists who want reparations from firms that worked in apartheid South Africa is busying lawyers at Anglo and others. The campaign is not now backed by South Africa's government, but what about in future? As the problems pile up, Mr Oppenheimer's engagement strategy--whatever the merits of his economic plan--may well be the best way to avoid heavy-handed interventions later.