Face valueSome like it hotFOR China's would-be steel barons, these are troublesome times. In its efforts to cool down the economy, the government has been trying to regain control of an industry which was once an icon of Communist economic power. But Guo Guangchang, one of China's richest entrepreneurs, is undeterred. Steel remains at the heart of the conglomerate he is building. China's steel production has more than doubled in the past five years--the extra output being equivalent to more than America's entire production. A third of the new capacity has come from private-sector operators like Mr Guo. His company, Shanghai Fosun High Technology, is the city's biggest private company, with five listed subsidiaries. Mr Guo expects steel demand to outpace GDP growth by 4 or 5 percentage points for several years. Half of that demand comes from the construction frenzy in property.The government allowed the private sector to move into steel in the 1990s as demand began to soar. Investors seized the opportunity--often getting cheap land from willing local governments eager to boost their economies. The land was used as collateral for bank loans, which financed usually small-scale steel mills with none of the social-welfare burdens that state-owned counterparts had to carry. Local officials often turned a blind eye to breaches of environmental and land-use regulations. Although private firms in China often complain of limited access to credit, in the steel industry the profits were potentially so great that state-owned banks lent with virtual abandon. Mr Guo's Fosun group set its sights on companies with steel assets once controlled by the state. In 2001 it spent $42m on a 30% share in another private firm, Tangshan Jianlong Steel, which had taken over several state-owned steel companies in northern China. In 2003, it bought a controlling stake in a listed state-controlled company, Nanjing Iron and Steel, for $199m. The Nanjing and Tangshan firms later set up a steel company in Ningbo, a port city near Shanghai, named Ningbo Jianlong Iron and Steel, that aimed to produce 6m tonnes a year.For Mr Guo, the move into an industry that was once a hallowed precinct of the Communist Party and its proletarian heroes marked a new peak in the ascent of his firm. The son of a rural stonemason, Mr Guo, now 38, had been quick to spot the opportunities provided by China's decision to embrace capitalism. His first success came in selling a testing kit for hepatitis in partnership with former classmates from Shanghai's prestigious Fudan University, where he had studied philosophy. Like many a successful entrepreneur in China, he then propelled himself to great riches in the property business. Some people talk of a property bubble emerging in Shanghai, but not Mr Guo. Fosun's real estate arm, Shanghai Forte, raised $221m last year in a listing on the Hong Kong stock exchange. Mr Guo says the group's profits last year amounted to about $400m. And he dismisses the impact of the collapse last year of another big investment firm, D'Long, which heightened banks' concerns about lending to companies like his. EuromoneyChina, a regional publication, ranked Mr Guo as China's 17th richest person in 2004 with a net worth of $400m. But the government's unpredictable lurches are a hazard for China's new capitalists. In late 2003, it decided to rein in the steel industry, worrying that excess investment, particularly in low-grade steel, was pushing up raw material prices and creating a glut. Last April, investors in new projects were required to put up at least 40% of the capital in order to secure loans, up from 25%. They also had to meet higher technical and quality standards. To reinforce its position, the government in March closed down one of the biggest new private projects, Jiangsu Tieben Iron & Steel in Changzhou, 150km (94 miles) north-west of Shanghai. Tieben allegedly violated land-use regulations and failed to gain the necessary approval from Beijing for its investment. Tieben's owner, Dai Guofang, who wanted to make his steel company the biggest in China, was thrown into jail where he still awaits trial.Then in July, the authorities' attention turned to Mr Guo's project in Ningbo. It too was accused of violating land-use regulations and failing to get necessary approval for some $1.3 billion of investment. Unlike Tieben, the Ningbo plant was on the verge of starting production. Having made its point with Tieben, the government has taken a less draconian approach with Ningbo. The project appears set to resume, but on condition that it merges with a state-controlled firm, Hangzhou Steel, which according to a deal still being finalised would likely acquire the biggest share (though not a controlling one). The government has failed to pursue state-owned steel-firms with equal vigour, even though they are no better at following the rules. Mr Guo's good official standing may have saved Ningbo from a worse fate. He is an adviser to the Shanghai government, a member of the national legislature and has been named as a "model worker"--a rare accolade for someone in private business. Mr Guo is also a member of one of the handful of compliant political parties allowed by (and effectively controlled by) the Communist Party. He is a senior member of Shanghai's state-controlled federation of industry and commerce. In Chinese business, such labels can be very useful assets. Mr Guo is encouraged by a government document issued in February that allows private investment in any business not banned by law and supposedly guarantees equal access to bank loans. The official media said the document was the first devoted entirely to promoting the interests of private business since the Communist takeover in 1949. But few, including Mr Guo, believe that the problems of making it to the top in China are over. 