Face valueDigging deepSINCE she took the reins at Incwala, a South African mining-investment firm, last September, Zanele Mavuso Mbatha has been avoiding the media. She is not keen on personal publicity. "It's not a Zanele show," she says firmly. "It is an Incwala show." Yet in South Africa's mining business, still dominated by white males, Ms Mavuso Mbatha cuts an unusual figure. The 36-year-old is at the helm of $1.7 billion of platinum assets, which make Incwala one of the largest black-owned and -operated companies in South Africa's mining industry.Incwala, which means "first fruits of the season" in Zulu, started life in the limelight. Born in 2004 out of Lonmin Platinum (Lonplats), the world's third-largest platinum producer, it is a product of the country's "black economic empowerment" (BEE) policy, which is meant to redress the economic injustices inherited from apartheid. South African mining companies are expected to do their bit, which among other things means transferring 26% of their capital into black hands by 2014. When Impala Platinum decided to divest from its joint venture with Lonmin, 18% of Lonplats went to the newly created Incwala, thus helping Lonplats's parents meet their empowerment obligations. Incwala was touted as the future flagship of black mining in South Africa, and expectations ran high. More than two years and three chief executives later, however, little has happened. A share in another platinum mine has been added to its holdings, also via Lonplats. But a planned tie-up with the mining division of Mvelaphanda, another BEE heavyweight, fell through last year. A few months later, Incwala's boss, Arne Frandsen, packed his bags. Ms Mavuso Mbatha, a shareholder of Incwala and deputy chair of the board, took the job.The daughter of exiled political activists, she left her Soweto home as a child and was schooled in Swaziland, Zimbabwe and the Netherlands, before studying international economics in California. All this was light years away from the second-rate Bantu education provided to black South Africans under the apartheid regime. After a few years as an investment banker in New York, Ms Mavuso Mbatha moved back to South Africa in 1997, versed in mergers and acquisitions in mining. This, she says, had always been the plan: "When you're an exile baby, your final destination is South Africa."But after years of absence, returning home took some getting used to. "In business, a black woman was nothing," she recalls. It was a long way from the politically correct sentiments of Wall Street. Speaking Sotho and Zulu softened the culture shock, but only slightly. In the late 1990s BEE was in full swing, but early deals involved a handful of well-connected heavy hitters. Confident that this would change, Ms Mavuso Mbatha created her own investment company, Dema, with a partner. By the time Lonplats engineered its own empowerment transaction, the mood had changed, and companies were looking for different types of partners. Dema became one of the three lead black investors, which, together with Lonplats employees, local people and a women's group, own 53% of Incwala.Although the deal-flow may have been disappointing, Incwala has been doing well. Thanks to strong platinum prices and the quality of its investment--Lonplats is amongst the lowest-cost platinum producers in the world--Incwala's market value has climbed from $650m at its birth to $1.7 billion today. Yet it remains a start-up, albeit one with a fat balance sheet.Ms Mavuso Mbatha has big ambitions, and her proposal for a new way forward has just got the nod from the board. The idea is to turn Incwala from an investment company into a diversified mining operator. The company is shopping for other mines, in platinum and other metals too, and will seek management control whenever possible. Ms Mavuso Mbatha expects to see some consolidation within the black mining world in the next few years, and Incwala needs more assets under its belt if it wants to acquire, rather than be acquired. "In this situation, size will matter," she laughs. Her ambition is to turn Incwala into the BHP Billiton or Xstrata of tomorrow. Incwala is now busy raising debt to refinance existing liabilities and pay for future acquisitions. The target is for Incwala to manage at least one mine within the next two or three years. Then a listing may be on the cards.Finding new assets should be relatively easy and several deals are in the pipeline. Mining companies are required to fulfil their empowerment responsibilities in order to keep their mining rights. Incwala helped Lonplats convert its mineral rights, the first platinum company to do so. It is also helping craft the social and community programmes required by the government. This could make Incwala an attractive partner for other mining companies with similar needs. "Everybody returns my phone calls," smiles Incwala's boss.But turning an investment company into a mining one will be tricky. Ms Mavuso Mbatha can do deals, but she is no miner. So far, Incwala is a one-woman show, with a total staff of five. In a country short on skills, finding the right people will not be easy. Talented black professionals are either climbing corporate ladders or chasing empowerment deals of their own. And the commodity boom means skilled workers of any colour are being pursued by foreign companies as well as local ones.BEE has been criticised for creating dealmakers, rather than genuine entrepreneurs and much-needed jobs. This is a fair point, Ms Mavuso Mbatha admits, but things are changing, and she wants to be part of that change. Her parents' generation fought for political rights. "My generation", she says, "will be judged over whether it helps create a sustainable economic miracle to maintain political freedom."