Face valueA new broomTHE world of mining is in flux. Most firms in the business are flush with cash, thanks to high metals prices, and are buying one another up with gay abandon. Upstarts from Russia and Brazil are challenging more established Western rivals. Even the biggest firms are said to be plausible targets for takeovers.The world of Cynthia Carroll is in flux too. In January she moved from Montreal to London, to become boss of Anglo American, the world's second-biggest mining conglomerate. Her husband and four children are waiting until the end of the Canadian school year to join her in London. Meanwhile, she has spent much of the past six months on planes, touring Anglo's operations around the world, peering into shafts and smelters, and chatting to managers and minions alike.Anglo American is not used to such turmoil. Mrs Carroll, an American, is the first non-South African to head the firm. She is also the first external candidate (her previous job was at Alcan, a big Canadian aluminium firm). Her predecessor at Anglo, Tony Trahar, had spent 33 years at the firm. When she was appointed, Sir Mark Moody-Stuart, who chairs Anglo American's board of directors, explained that the new boss should be someone who could lead a change of culture at the firm. So Mrs Carroll, in other words, is supposed to breathe some fresh air into the $87 billion mammoth, whose reputation is rather staid, male, and much more old-school Anglo than cutting-edge American.To be fair, that reputation is a little out of date. The 90-year-old Anglo American has branched out far and wide from its South African roots. It now employs 190,000 people in 65 countries. In 2005 the group decided to focus on mining, and embarked on an ambitious restructuring, which was well under way by the time Mrs Carroll took the reins. Mondi, its paper and packaging business, is being demerged and is due to list in London and Johannesburg on July 3rd. Anglo American has also shed its underperforming steel business and plans to sell its remaining stake in AngloGold Ashanti, since investors value free-standing gold-mining operations more highly than those that are part of conglomerates. All this has helped improve Anglo's margins and returns--and its share price, which outperformed its competitors' last year. But there is plenty more to do. Anglo's two main rivals, BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto, seem to offer better margins and returns. Daniel Fairclough of Merrill Lynch points out that the pair are the products of block-busting (and cost-cutting) mergers--the sort of upheaval that Anglo American has never undergone.Can Mrs Carroll burnish the firm's performance? She is no miner, but speaks the language thanks to a degree in geology. She has spent her career in similar industries, first at Amoco, an oil company, and then at Alcan, where she ran the core metal-making business. Under her supervision, its productivity improved dramatically. She also presided over the successful integration of a rival firm, Pechiney, into Alcan, reaping large savings.Mrs Carroll would like to make acquisitions at Anglo too. In fact, the firm has already started shopping. So far this year, it has bought a share in an iron-ore project in Brazil and the Michiquillay copper deposit in Peru. It will also be growing organically, with $7 billion of new projects already approved, and another $10 billion to 15 billion under consideration.The new boss also hopes to bring her knack for improving productivity to bear. She has already started thinning out layers of management and cutting red tape. She wants Anglo's many divisions to pool functions such as procurement so as to create economies of scale and to share practices that might cut costs or improve output. She promises to encourage innovation, to set ambitious targets, especially on safety, over which Anglo has suffered some recent lapses, and to judge managers by their performance. Such shared standards, she hopes, might imbue the firm with a sense of common purpose. A new face might also help with public relations. Mrs Carroll admits that the firm's relations with the South African government have been prickly in the past. When Mr Trahar implied in an interview a few years ago that South Africa still carried a degree of political risk, President Thabo Mbeki was outraged. The authorities have berated the firm's platinum unit for its slow progress in meeting targets on black economic empowerment, a process meant to redress the economic injustices of apartheid. As a result, the government has not yet granted it the permits it needs to keep mining after 2009. Mrs Carroll says she intends to improve ties with governments, as well as customers, suppliers and local communities. "I think we're a very good partner," she says, mentioning the group's initiatives on HIV/AIDS and efforts to help small entrepreneurs in Africa. She co-chaired this year's World Economic Forum on Africa earlier this month, rubbing shoulders with politicians and businesspeople from around the region. "We've learnt to engage with governments in a constructive and co-operative way."All these changes are needed if Anglo American is to get on top of its game--and out of its competitors' reach. Rumour persistently paints the firm as the object of an imminent takeover bid, although nothing tangible has materialised so far. But as long as Anglo American is thought to be underperforming its potential, it is at risk. The firm's employees must be conscious of the threat. At any rate, Mrs Carroll says they are hungry for change and have welcomed her, despite the turmoil she brings. She could not have dreamt of a better reception, she says. "We came together at the right time."