GoldDisharmonySELL in the market and run. That may be sound advice for shareholders of Gold Fields, the South African mining company that this week received an uninvited all-share offer from Harmony, its local rival. The bid set off much excited talk. Behind it lay a Russian tycoon, Vladimir Potanin, whose Norilsk Nickel has since March owned 20% of Gold Fields. If the deal went ahead, it would create the biggest gold producer in the world. But will it? Why, today, would anyone want shares in any South African gold-mining company?Mother Nature has not been much help. In Ghana and Australia, say, the ore lies near the surface; in Ghana it is mined opencast. South Africa's gold lies deep; some shafts go down three kilometres (1.9 miles). And the ore is of lower quality than in the past: the producers crush as much ore as they did 30 years ago, but get less than 40% as much gold. This means South African mines need a good gold price.Here politics has helped. The old fantasy of gold as a "store of value" has flourished since the September 11th terrorist attacks on America. And if enough people believe it, it becomes true. On that dreadful day, gold was $288 an ounce; this week it was around $420. But foreign-exchange markets have stolen that gain, since South Africa's currency also has flourished. The day the Twin Towers fell, a dollar would buy 8.62 rand; this week only about 6.35. Gold is priced in dollars, but South African miners are paid in rand--and their wages too have risen fast. Their employers have felt the pain. The rand gold price peaked at the end of 2001. It recently hit a three-year low. Harmony's chairman, Patrice Motsepe, this month presenting its annual report for the year to June 2004, put the results bluntly: with gold at its dollar low of $252 in April-June 2001, he said, the industry made a profit of $20 an ounce; in the same quarter this year, with gold about $390, the industry lost about $50 an ounce. And nine-tenths of Harmony's 3.3m ounces of gold last year was South African. Its operating result slid from profit into a $144m loss. The outlook is less gloomy now, as Harmony's July-September results, out next week, may suggest. Gold has bounced, in both rand and dollar terms. And Harmony has won union acceptance of a shift system that will enable it to mine every day in the year except for 12 public holidays.  But Gold Fields also gains from price rises, and it is less tied to South Africa: it dug 2.8m ounces there in 2003-04, but another 1.35m, at lower cost, elsewhere, and made a $156m operating profit. No wonder the board of Gold Fields (and trade-unionists, fearing job losses) snorted at the notional $8 billion of Harmony's all-share offer. The company swore to push on with its own plan to merge its assets abroad with those of IAMGOLD, a Toronto-based outfit with stakes mainly in West Africa. The result would be a new company, 70%-held by Gold Fields, with 2m ounces a year of non-South African output.So it is clear why Harmony would want Gold Fields, but not why shareholders of Gold Fields should want to swap. Yet Mr Potanin does. Why? He bought his stake in Gold Fields both to acquire non-Russian assets and to diversify. Yet neither aim would be visibly advanced by holding a smaller share of an enlarged company.  Gold Fields has no explanation. The natural one would be that Mr Potanin has reached a private deal about the future with Harmony. There is no such deal, says Bernard Swanepoel, that company's chief executive; Norilsk just sees the merits of a Harmony-Gold Fields link-up. Maybe, but, unless the bid terms are improved, the "biggest gold producer in the world" is likely to remain the one it is today: Newmont Mining, of Denver, Colorado.