Great Western Minerals Produces Carbonate; Terbium Oxide DownGreat Western Minerals Group hit a significant company milestone, announcing "last week that it successfully tested its mini pilot plant and produced carbonate from material mined from its Steenkampskraal rare earths project in South Africa," reports Rare Earth Investing News."The Canadian company said the mixed rare earth carbonate will be used to further characterize and evaluate the separation of rare earth elements from the mine located north of Capetown.""'This is a significant milestone for us,' Great Western president and CEO Marc LeVier said in a statement published last Wednesday. 'We optimized the metallurgical process and successfully operated a pilot plant which produced a mixed rare earth carbonate product. We now have a process flow sheet that is being engineered in our ongoing SKK feasibility study. The study remains on track for completion around the end of the first quarter of 2014.'"In metal price news for rare earths...Terbium oxide's 2.9 percent decline made it this week's biggest mover on the weekly Rare Earths MMI(r). After a 1.6 percent decline, neodymium oxide closed out the week. Praseodymium oxide fell 0.9 percent over the past week.* Get the complete prices every day on the MetalMiner IndX(sm)Cerium oxide remained essentially flat from the previous week. The week finished with no movement for dysprosium oxide. Dysprosium oxide prices held steady from the previous week. The price of europium oxide did not change since the previous week.Neodymium traded sideways last week. Praseodymium neodymium oxide prices held steady from the previous week. Prices for rare earth carbonate remained constant, closing the week. Samarium oxide remained unchanged for the week.FREE Download: The Monthly MMI(r) Report - covering the Rare Earths market.Terbium metal traded sideways last week. The week finished with no movement for yttria. The price of yttrium did not change since the previous week.The Rare Earths MMI(r) collects and weights 14 global rare earth metal price points to provide a unique view into rare earth metal price trends. For more information on the Rare Earths MMI(r), how it's calculated or how your company can use the index, please drop us a note at: info (at) agmetalminer (dot) com.