Harmony and Gold FieldsFeverishIT MAY create the world's biggest gold producer, at least in terms of output. That excites those who foresee the industry consolidating into a few mammoth firms, or those simply feverish from the surge that carried gold briefly to $437 an ounce this week. But so far the bid by Harmony, a South African gold miner, to grab Gold Fields, a bigger local rival with tempting ore reserves, has led mainly to hype. In New York this week Harmony's ebullient chief, Bernard Swanepoel, raged that Gold Fields had labelled him "a criminal" by saying that he exaggerated his firm's reserves. His rivals lack judgment, he jeered, wasting money on thick office carpets, instead of mining the yellow stuff. Gold Fields hit back, sneering that Harmony's share price had slumped by some 17% since it announced its "ill-conceived" and unwanted bid on October 18th.That is troubling for Mr Swanepoel: the value of his all-share offer is far below the $8.1 billion first announced. And his own shareholders had yet to vote, on November 12th, to back the bid. Gold Fields has launched legal actions in South Africa and America to block it. Their merits are unclear: Harmony this week defeated two challenges to its two-stage bid (34.9% first, just below South Africa's threshold for a compulsory full bid, the rest later). But they take time and threaten, at least, delay. Mr Swanepoel has written to his rival, Ian Cockerill, offering peace talks, and been briskly told to take his bid off Gold Fields' lawn. But he already had one big backer among its shareholders: Norilsk Nickel, a Russian firm with over 20%. Its boss, Vladimir Potanin, never warmed to Mr Cockerill, and dislikes his pricey plan to buy a Canadian firm, IAMGOLD, and put Gold Fields' mines abroad into the resulting entity, separate from its South African ones, which are far costlier to work.Harmony says no: scrap the Canadian link-up, cut costs by 15% in the South African mines, lift profits despite the strength of the rand. "Statistics" are now flying to show that one side or the other is better placed to cut costs. Harmony, which began talking of 1 billion rand, now says it could trim 17 billion ($2.8 billion) at Gold Fields: economies of scale, better use of capital, fewer staff and no more plush carpets. In all, cheaper mining. Harmony has already pulled off similar feats, prolonging the lives of mines that others had dumped. Gold Fields this week put out its own figures, to show that it mines 15% more cheaply than Harmony, per kilo of gold, and needs no lessons from its rival. It talks of more cost-cutting, but not if it threatens long-term deep mining of rich ores.Unless Harmony's shareholders or Gold Fields' lawyers halt it first, the battle will last at least to November 26th, when the first stage of Harmony's bid is due. The rest of the industry is watching carefully. Some huge companies have indeed been born of mergers in the past couple of years. But bigger is not always better. South Africa's AngloGold bought Ghana's Ashanti Goldfields earlier this year, and now has 22 operations in 11 countries. But its remote activities are proving costlier than expected, and its share price is down. 