Hong Kong as a financial centreFlagrant harbourAFPBig smiles, few questionsRUSAL, the world's largest aluminium company, desperately needs money to support mountains of debt but, as its recently issued prospectus suggests, there are reasons why funds may be tricky to raise. The prospectus repeatedly warns would-be investors that they could lose everything; it also admits that the firm does not meet the profit test for listing on the Hong Kong stock exchange. That apparently does not bother the exchange itself, which will host Rusal's planned multibillion-dollar share offering, the first by a Russian company, later this month. The bourse is making a vigorous play for foreign listings from companies outside China, the source of its recent success but a stamping-ground that may soon be lost to resurgent local exchanges in Shenzhen and Shanghai.If the Rusal offering is pounced upon by investors, there is hope that another six or seven big Russian companies will quickly follow. In short order Hong Kong could usurp London's AIM market, which proved to be a popular destination for Russian listings in the past. The Russians are not the only ones. Hong Kong received its first German listing in late December. The company, Schramm Holding, is controlled by South Korean investors who settled on Hong Kong because they thought the local investor base would find the company's growing sales in China appealing. Esther Leung, a lawyer at DLA Piper who worked on the transaction, says she is in discussions about listings with companies from America, Japan and Kazakhstan, as well as South Korea and Russia. As many as ten non-Chinese companies may have already received quiet approval from the exchange's listing committee, reckons PricewaterhouseCoopers, an accountancy firm. This is in addition to a handful of extremely large expected offerings, including the spin-out of AIG's Asian life-insurance operations.Hong Kong's appeal is the result both of what it offers and of what it withholds. Although China's capital account is technically closed, a flood of money, presumed to be sloshing over from the mainland's massive bank-lending binge, has pushed up the prices of investible assets in the territory. The broader story of Chinese growth helps boost valuations. Li Ning, which sells sports kit in China, is valued at 30 times trailing earnings, half again as much as Nike, which also has a robust China business but trades in America. At the same time disclosure requirements and general intrusiveness are lower in Hong Kong than in other destinations. Whether Rusal and many other Russian companies could even qualify for a listing in America, say, is a subject of debate.Aware of this, and of Rusal's controversial status, Hong Kong's regulators have attached unprecedented conditions to the aluminium company's offering, in effect barring all but the richest individuals from participating. However well intentioned, the move sends an odd message. In expanding its horizons, the exchange is willing to lower its standards. 