In Final Affirmative Ruling, DOC Calculates Anti-Dumping Rates as High as 109% for Chinese Aluminum FoilThe U.S. Department of Commerce. qingwa/Adobe StockThe Department of Commerce on Tuesday issued a final affirmative determination in its anti-dumping and countervailing duty investigation of aluminum foil imports from China.Buying Aluminum in 2018? Download MetalMiner's free annual price outlook"This Administration is committed to trade that is fair and reciprocal, and we will not allow American workers and businesses to be harmed by unfair imports," Secretary of Commerce Wilbur Ross said in a department release.The foil products covered in the investigations are of a thickness of 0.2 mm or less, in reels exceeding 25 pounds (regardless of width). Foil products excluded from the scope of the probes are "aluminum foil backed with paper, paperboard, plastics, or similar backing materials on one side or both sides of the aluminum foil, as well as etched capacitor foil and aluminum foil that is cut to shape."A petition was filed by the Aluminum Association's Trade Enforcement Working Group on March 9, 2017, marking the first time the association had filed a petition on its members' behalf in its 85-year history, according to an Aluminum Association release.The department calculated the following dumping rates:Meanwhile, the department calculated the following subsidy rates:Heidi Brock, president and CEO of the Aluminum Association, praised the Department of Commerce's ruling."The Aluminum Association and its foil-producing members are extremely pleased with the Commerce Department's final determinations that aluminum foil from China is being sold unfairly in the United States," she said.  "We appreciate Secretary Ross's leadership in enforcing rules-based global trade. U.S. aluminum foil producers are among the most competitive producers in the world, but they cannot compete against products that are sold at unfairly low prices and subsidized by the Government of China."The U.S. International Trade Commission is scheduled to make final determinations in the anti-dumping and countervailing duty cases April 12, after which -- should it rule in the affirmative -- anti-dumping and countervailing duty orders would be issued April 19.Want to see an Aluminum Price forecast? Take a free trial!Imports of aluminum foil from China in 2016 were estimated at a value of $389 million, according to the Department of Commerce.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service