Japanese industryNot-in-time manufacturingWHEN two good trends yield a bad result it often means that somebody has messed up. Executives at Nissan Motor, Japan's second-largest carmaker, were embarrassed this week as they halted three of its four assembly plants there for two days, because of steel shortages. The shutdown partly reflects two good trends. Under Carlos Ghosn, Nissan has gone from five main Japanese steel suppliers to two, as part of a broad plan to cut costs by using fewer suppliers. This has succeeded, but left the firm more dependent on the chosen two, Nippon Steel and JFE Holdings. So it must manage its supply chain well to profit from the second bit of good news: booming demand for its cars. Alas, Nissan mishandled that task, and is now scrambling to find more steel. It will have to delay production of 25,000 cars, including another shutdown at the plants for three days next week. On December 2nd Mr Ghosn said that Nissan may also have to slash output by 15,000 units in March, costing a further Y=6 billion ($58m) in profits. The timing is bad. Nissan has just launched four new models in Japan and will soon launch another. With Nippon Steel and JFE running at full capacity, Nissan has had to look elsewhere for high-quality steel. To be fair to Nissan, firms across the region are scrambling for more steel because China has been on a building spree and shipbuilders in Japan and South Korea have been cranking out new vessels to carry booming world trade. Other car firms in Japan are also going full tilt. Toyota plans to raise its domestic output by 300,000 units next year. Global demand has been so high that Japan's carmakers still enjoy strong exports even as they ramp up output at their plants overseas--and these plants too need steel. Pundits have found plenty of raw material to do some bashing of their own, criticising Japan's steelmakers for not investing in new capacity to cash in on booming demand. One could think that a refreshing change: for too long, Japanese makers of everything from steel to semiconductors poured heaps of molten capital into new capacity, only to see it come out the other side as cold-rolled losses. Early next year, JFE will shut down one of its blast furnaces to overhaul the process and boost its capacity. South Korea's POSCO will follow suit in the spring. This will crimp supply in the first half of 2005, but then boost output. And Sumitomo Metal Industries reportedly has much bigger plans: a new production line, due on stream in 2006, to boost its output of steel sheet for cars by about 400,000 tonnes a year, roughly one-third of its current output. That should be enough for over 500,000 new cars, reckons Kurt Sanger, an analyst at Macquarie Securities in Tokyo. Meanwhile Nissan will have to go on scrounging around for the stuff. 