Japan's basic industriesUnder pressureLandovRoll with itWHY pay attention to a deal that failed to happen? Because it could be a sign of things to come. The deal in question was Japan's first hostile takeover bid by one blue-chip company for another, which expired on September 4th. Oji Paper, Japan's biggest paper company, had tried to take over Hokuetsu Paper, a smaller firm. But the deal was blocked when Nippon Paper, the industry's number two, bought a stake in Hokuetsu and the company put in place poison pills to defend itself. Yet although Oji's bid failed, the logic of the deal made sense. Indeed, several converging factors suggest that Japan's basic industries are now poised for an outbreak of mergers and takeovers in the coming months.After Japan's economic bubble burst in 1990, the country's overcrowded basic industries found themselves laden with debt, overcapacity and overemployment. A round of consolidation followed. The number of oil firms shrank from 14 to five, for example, and the number of cement companies from seven to three. The resulting companies then began paying back their huge loans and streamlining their operations. Now that Japan's economy has started to recover, firms are awash with cash, making possible share buybacks, higher dividend payouts and increased capital expenditure. This week the finance ministry said that corporate investment had grown for 13 quarters in a row, jumping 16.6% in the three months to June 30th, compared with the year before.But companies have realised that improving their own operations can only yield so much growth. The top firms in each industry are the most aware of the need for greater scale, says Peter Tasker of Arcus Investment. Oji, to its credit, realised that Hokuetsu had recently invested a great deal of money in new equipment, at a time when Oji and Nippon Paper, after years of parsimony, needed fresh equipment too. Oji reckoned it would be better for the industry if it were to buy Hokuetsu, rather than investing in new equipment itself, which would add to overcapacity and drag prices down. The same is true in other basic industries, where overcapacity means that consolidation now makes more sense than investing in new kit.Japanese firms also have some catching up to do. While they were putting their houses in order, their healthier foreign rivals went on acquisition sprees. As a result, even Japan's largest companies in some industries are now dwarfed by their foreign rivals. For example, RUSAL, a Russian aluminium firm, is shortly expected to take over SUAL, a local rival, and the aluminium assets of Glencore, a Swiss commodities group, to become the world's biggest aluminium-maker, with an output of around 4m tonnes of aluminium a year. By comparison, Japan's largest aluminium firm, Furukawa-Sky Aluminum, produces a mere 427,000 tonnes a year. Similarly, the merger of Mittal Steel and Arcelor created a giant that easily overshadows Japan's top four steelmakers.Another factor likely to prompt consolidation in Japan is a new corporate law, due to come into effect in May 2007, which will allow foreign companies to use stock swaps to acquire Japanese firms, so facilitating takeovers. There is particular concern that takeover bids from companies based in developing countries could pose a threat to Japan's strategic interests. Japan's trade ministry has advised the country's steelmakers to adopt poison pills to protect themselves from foreign takeovers, and has called for antitrust regulations to be relaxed to allow further consolidation. Some of Japan's stronger and braver companies have responded by buying foreign companies themselves. Nippon Sheet Glass, a big glass firm, bought Pilkington, a British glassmaker, for example, and Toshiba bought Westinghouse, an American nuclear-power equipment-maker. Other firms have established joint ventures. Sumitomo Chemical, a petrochemical company, has struck a deal with Saudi Aramco, Saudi Arabia's state-owned oil giant, to set up a Y=1 trillion ($8.6 billion) plant in Saudi Arabia. This week Nippon Steel and POSCO, South Korea's largest steelmaker, which already hold shares in one another, said they were considering deepening their defensive partnership.Already, there is some evidence of an increase in mergers and acquisitions. The value of such deals amounted to some Y=8 trillion in the first seven months of this year and is expected to reach a record high by the end of the year. But as Oji's unsuccessful bid shows, even deals that make sound business sense can be scuppered for other reasons. Hokuetsu's shareholders rejected Oji's generous offer for their shares, leading some companies to wonder whether hostile takeovers will ever be readily accepted in Japan. What Japan needs is more shareholder activists, says Mr Tasker. But these days the phrase carries a nasty whiff: Yoshiaki Murakami, the most flamboyant example, is now under arrest, having been accused of insider dealing. Nor is there any sign of a shift away from Japan's conservative business culture. Instead, to the delight of the corporate old guard, the trial began this week of Takafumi Horie, the swashbuckling former president of livedoor, a sprawling internet company, who pleaded not guilty to fraud charges. The tug-of-war between a culture that prizes harmony and global pressures that are not going to go away may continue for some time. 