John Correnti, CEO and Chairman of Big River Steel and Ex-Nucor CEO, DiesJohn Correnti, an American steel executive who helped shift the domestic industry geographically and technologically, died Tuesday in Chicago.Free Sample Report: Our Monthly Metal Price OutlookCorrenti, 68, was chairman, founder and chief executive officer of Big River Steel LLC and was in Chicago for a board meeting of Navistar International Corp., the company said in a statement. The cause of death was not immediately provided.Correnti was leading Big River Steel to build a $1.3 billion mill in Osceola, Ark., near the Mississippi River. The facility is planned to supply high-quality steel products to customers including automakers and energy companies.Correnti served as CEO of Nucor Corp. from 1996 to 1999 and helped move the US steel industry away from its regional roots by expanding its reach to the South. Correnti also opened a steel mill for Severstal in Mississippi which was later sold to Steel Dynamics.Free Download: Latest Metal Price Trends in the August MMI ReportBig River Steel released a statement saying, "Big River Steel will be one of many legacies John leaves with us all. John was a visionary, an innovator and a leader who dedicated his career to improving the steel industry and creating opportunities for those that worked within it."Picket lines staffed by locked out union workers appeared at several Allegheny Technologies, Inc. facilities this week. ATI has vowed to staff the plants with management and replacement workers and the United Steelworkers of America personnel locked out will be eligible for unemployment benefits during the lockout.The two sides disagree about healthcare contributions for the union workers.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service