Judge Dakota Access Can be Completed, Tribal Religious Objection DeniedA Washington, D.C. federal judge on Tuesday rejected the Cheyenne River Sioux Tribe's bid to block operation of the Dakota Access pipeline on federal land in North Dakota, saying the tribe likely won't be able to show that the federal government interfered with its exercise of religion on land outside the tribal reservation by allowing the project to go forward.Benchmark Your Current Metal Price by Grade, Shape and Alloy: See How it Stacks UpJudge James Boasberg of the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia rejected the tribes' request for an injunction to withdraw permission issued by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers for the last, eight-mile link of the oil pipeline underneath Lake Oahe in North Dakota.Energy Transfer Partners LP is building the $3.8 billion pipeline to move crude oil from the Northern Plains to the Midwest and then, via existing pipelines, on to the Gulf of Mexico where some of it will be sold for export. The Cheyenne River Sioux and the Standing Rock Sioux tribes have been leading the legal challenge to the pipeline but now two federal judges have rejected their request to stop the pipeline on what the tribes say are religious grounds. The tribes had argued that the pipeline would render water they use for religious ceremonies "spiritually impure" even if the pipeline runs entirely through the bedrock underneath Lake Oahe and never comes in contact with the water.Energy Transfer Partners needs only to finish eight miles of construction of the pipeline beneath Lake Oahe, part of the Missouri River system, to connect a final gap in the 1,170-mile pipeline, which will move oil from the Bakken shale formation to a terminus in Illinois. When oil begins to flow from the pipeline to the Midwest it will likely bring down costs for both rail and highway tanker cars which are currently being used to transport the oil, which caused a shortage of available cars for other bulk commodities such as steel and grain.Two-Month Trial: Metal Buying OutlookEnergy Transfer said in a statement late Monday that it plans to start pumping oil through a section of the line under the Missouri River by the week of March 13. A spokeswoman said the company was pleased with Boasberg's decision.The U.S. trade deficit jumped to a near 5-year high in January as rising oil prices helped to push up the import bill, pointing to slower economic growth in the first quarter and posing a challenge for the Trump administration.President Donald Trump took office with a pledge to boost annual economic growth to 4% and renegotiate trade deals in favor of the U.S. Trump blames U.S. trade policy for the loss of American factory jobs and the import-driven surge in the trade gap could intensify the debate on a cross-border tax.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service