LettersSIR--You provide a disturbing reason for handing Florida's electoral votes to George W. Bush: convenience ("Win!*", December 2nd). This is especially troubling after you admit that a full manual recount of all of Florida's votes soon after November 7th would have been the best course of action. Is the water that has passed under the bridge since then really so muddy?In asserting that it is, rather than offering demonstrative argument, you neglect to address adequately two fundamental questions about the current legal wrangling. Why should not every legally cast ballot be counted and why is it not in America's best interest to resolve a legally disputed election with assistance from the courts?GREGORY FELDMANSyracuse, New YorkSIR--The basis of American democracy (and yours) is a strong judiciary. Without it, there is no difference between us and Serbia or Peru. Mechanisms exist for this phenomenally close election to be challenged. We should follow these mechanisms and ultimately we should do as accurate a count as is possible. If we allow our imaginations to fabricate an impending need for a victory declaration, we will have created a dangerous precedent. If the winner's margin is less than 1% of the vote, the actual winner will be decided by the media and how they choose to direct public opinion. I hope that Al Gore will not concede until all legal avenues are exhausted. RENAN CASTILLOBaltimoreSIR--Please be a bit more accurate in your depiction of America's post-election possibilities. First, you mention that the clean way out would be for Mr Gore to fail to muster the votes he needs. Why? So that your candidate of choice wins. This is a bit presumptuous.Second, you claim that this should have been an easy victory for Mr Gore. This is incorrect. No presidential election is ever easy and vice-presidents have a history of not rising above their office. The best way to the Oval Office has been through the Senate and the governor's mansion, so it should have been an easy election for Mr Bush. Finally, you say that unlike Mr Gore, Mr Bush would be a strong candidate next time. Mr Bush has a clear and strong competitor within the Republican party: John McCain. Mr Gore, however, is now the single and clear leader of the Democratic Party.JOSHUA WISCHBethesda, MarylandSIR--In "Brewer's Dictionary of Phrase and Fable" a "Bush lawyer" is "one who argues glibly on a slight or inaccurate basis". Similarly, "corners of the fields which, from their shape, could not be cut up into the usual acre or half-acre strips, were sometimes divided into tapering strips pointed at one end" and were called "gores", or "gored acres". Not unlike the "Florida chad".TERENCE SWAINEKirkland, WashingtonSIR--On few matters has more professional humbug been written than on the importance for auditors, and particularly those who are partners of the larger firms, to maintain their independence when serving their clients ("Keeping auditors independent", November 18th). As long as audit fees are, with few exceptions, paid by boards of directors at the recommendation of the management (ie, CEO) that retains the audit firms, the latter cannot be considered independent. Partners' rewards within their firms depend to a large extent on the fees they help to generate from their clients. Thus they have a material interest in retaining them. More often than not, they lose income when a client moves to another firm. Any focus by the Securities and Exchange Commission on the profession's independence that does not ensure full separation of the method of remuneration of auditors prolongs the dependence of the audit firms on their clients.What should be done? The SEC might consider conceding that under the prevailing system independence should not be expected, or it might call for the establishment of an independent body, somewhat reminiscent of other public organisations, that could act as a conduit for financing the audit services provided.DAN BAVLYHarvard UniversityCambridge, Massachusetts SIR--You err when you imply that the iron-ore industry is an oligopoly ("Feeling the heat", November 25th). For many years the steel industry has acted as a monopsonist when dealing with the iron-ore industry. To this day, Japan operates as a monolith in the annual iron-ore price negotiations as do the Europeans. Once the price is set in one region, this in effect sets the price in the other. Iron-ore prices have been falling in real terms for the past 20 years and this has forced consolidation in the industry. The situation is similar in the coking-coal industry. Most iron-ore and coking-coal companies are profitable, but that is more to do with the devaluation of the Australian, Brazilian and South African currencies against the dollar, as these raw materials are quoted in dollars.I wonder whether you have been deliberately sucked into the annual iron-ore price negotiations, which begin about this time every year. It will be a coup for the steel industry to brandish your worthy organ in the faces of the iron-ore companies: "See, even The Economist thinks iron-ore prices are too high". It is a pity to let facts get in the way of a good story.ANTHONY SWEENEYDarien, Connecticut SIR--Any large-scale effort to curb carbon dioxide and other greenhouse-gas emissions will impose enormous costs on the world economy, and harm poor and disadvantaged people much more than the rich ("What to do about global warming", November 18th). Also, all those scientists, collecting evidence for the upcoming "disaster", have a strong interest in diverting tax money to their climate-research projects. There are large regions in the world where global warming (if it exists) will prove beneficial; for example, the northern hemisphere whose land mass is almost twice that of the southern hemisphere (if you ignore Antarctica). So, should we spend trillions of dollars on the greenhouse effect? Common sense dictates that spending cash on things whose benefits you can only guess at but whose costs are certain is rather foolish.GERD KOMMERMunichSIR--There is a missing dimension to discussions on carbon trading and sinks in combating global warming--farmers in the tropics. A recent report from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change shows that smallholder farmers in the tropics could soak up around 0.4 gigatonnes of atmospheric carbon per year, one-fifth of annual carbon emissions by America from all sources. This could be achieved simply by growing trees on degraded croplands and grasslands, an approach known as agroforestry. It has the greatest potential of any agricultural option to sequester carbon.Trees grow fast in the tropics, accumulating carbon in their biomass. They also replenish organic carbon in soil and, in many cases, the fertility of the soil. Agroforestry is now helping to eliminate hunger and poverty in Africa. Wise use of the clean development mechanism of the Kyoto protocol could allow money invested by rich countries to buy carbon credits that, through agroforestry, would benefit poor farmers in developing countries and help tackle global warming. PEDRO SANCHEZDirector general, International Centre for Research in AgroforestryNairobiSIR--You state that successful implementation of the Kyoto protocol will be aided by the creation of institutions and mechanisms that endure. You offer the post-war process of trade liberalisation as a shining beacon to follow. Not many Australian commodity producers--probably the most efficient and unprotected in the world--would agree. Having been kept out of European markets by trade barriers for over 100 years there remains significant unfinished business before we have fair access to those and other markets.Regrettably, just as with trade reform, we have a long way to go before reaching any form of international co-operation on climate-change policy. In the interim we can do without the pious attitude of many European countries which do not always take their global responsibilities seriously.GREG EVANSBurra Creek, AustraliaSIR--According to some estimates global warming will raise ocean levels sufficiently that Washington, DC, will end up six feet under water. A fortuitous and beneficial result with which no one could take serious issue.LARRY GRUPPMoscow, IdahoSIR--You suggest that Vladimir Putin needs to study the links between political pluralism and wealth creation (" 'Democracy' in Russia", November 25th). But from where should he draw examples? His largest and most populous neighbour is China, whose totalitarian rule has gone unchallenged for all of Mr Putin's lifetime. For many years, China has seen its people's standard of living rise dramatically--even if most remain desperately poor. At the same time, India, the world's largest democracy, has seen impressive growth in output but struggles to maintain living standards. Would that The Economist were right, but if the relationship between democracy and wealth were so obvious, this battle would have been won already and Mr Putin could spend his time studying, for instance, the indecipherable rules of cricket rather than contradictory theories of political economy.ROBERT GLICKNew YorkSIR--The prospects for religious freedom in Russia are even bleaker than you suggest. For most of the past decade Russia's Jews have enjoyed considerable religious freedom. Unlike some Baptists and Pentecostals, they have not suffered bans on renting public halls for worship. Unlike some Protestant missionaries and Roman Catholic priests, foreign rabbis have not experienced arbitrary restrictions on their right to live in Russia. Mr Putin, however, is now meddling in what any free society would regard as a purely internal Jewish question: the choosing of Russia's chief rabbi. The Kremlin's motive in this case does not appear to be anti-Semitic. The incumbent chief rabbi, whom Mr Putin wants to oust, is an ally of Vladimir Gusinsky, an independent media tycoon whom Mr Putin wants to cut down. But his readiness to interfere in the choosing of a religious leader should alarm believers and non-believers alike.LAWRENCE UZZELLOxford SIR--Your harsh words about investment in rail safety are misjudged ("The price of safety", November 25th). You assert that the current blitz is unjustified because of a low apparent risk from broken rails and that other safety measures are unwarranted. This is only a partial view of the facts. First, although it is correct that only six fatalities in 30 years have arisen from broken rails, the Hither Green crash in 1967 killed 49 people. It is deeply misleading to omit one of the worst post-war train accidents. Second, your attempt to minimise the seriousness of broken rails, and track quality in general, receives little support from industry data. The number of rail breaks on British railways has risen substantially since the low point of 1990. More important, no one seems to be able to explain this upward trend. It occurs even though many more defective, but unbroken, rails are replaced in routine maintenance. It seems perfectly sensible that Railtrack should therefore decide to carry out emergency repairs across the network. If a body with a statutory responsibility for safe conveyance faces an increasingly serious problem that it acknowledges openly that it does not understand, it is obliged to take immediate action. This may be justified even if it results in a temporary increase in other risks, such as collisions.You question the benefits of installing advanced train protection systems (ATPS). You claim that the cost equals about PS15m per life saved, and you rightly point out that this exceeds the value ascribed to a single life in other circumstances. The discrepancy does not necessarily indicate irrationality or massive misallocation of resources. It is perfectly reasonable to demand higher safety standards when the risk is completely out of the control of the person exposed to the danger. Also, cost per life saved is a backward-looking measure; it assesses how many lives would have been saved in the past.As trains get more crowded and more frequent, deaths from ATPS-preventable accidents are liable to increase, perhaps steeply, even if the industry as a whole is becoming safer. On a crowded and chronically overstretched railway system, ATPS is a better investment than you suggest. CHRIS GOODALLAbingdon, OxfordshireSIR--The whole concept of ATPS needs to be questioned, since it excludes from the safety loop the most important players--employees. For example, with the driver freed of the necessity to react to red lights since the ATPS will do it for him, it is inevitable that his overall awareness will flag and pave the way for other hazards to emerge.Nothing is easier, flashier and more satisfying than writing a big cheque (using someone else's money) for a fancy new piece of hardware such as ATPS and declaring the problem solved. However, as you work down the list of other safety features, though things cost less money and are increasingly effective, they require more and continuous management effort and are less glamorous for the bosses. But if you are genuinely passionate about avoiding blood loss, there is no other route to continuous safety improvement. TONY ALLWRIGHTKilliney, IrelandSIR--Most coverage of America's Federal Reserve appears to treat it and its chairman, Alan Greenspan, as one and the same. He is so highly regarded and his every nuance so closely studied that Senator John McCain even quipped about keeping his image alive if he were to die. You call him "Mammon's own deity" ("No recount at the Fed", November 18th). Such glorification makes me wonder if like Louis XIV's legendary utterance, "L'etat c'est moi", Mr Greenspan equates himself with the state of the economy. What are the views of the other members of the Fed's board of governors or are they dominated by their chairman? How do these people justify their salaries? Do they have any self-respect? Do they merit ours?DAVID STEINBERGAlexandria, VirginiaSIR--Bagehot (December 2nd) wrongly places Peter Mandelson on a Mies van der Rohe chair. The chair in question was in fact a Ray and Charles Eames design. I hope this will help to bury the myth that New Labour's pro-European stance is to the detriment of the Anglo-American special relationship (at least as far as furniture is concerned).BRITT GROOSMANBrussels 