LexingtonTongue on the looseIN THE president's boardroom, Paul O'Neill was to be the chief financial officer. Years as the boss of Alcoa--a huge aluminium firm with 140,000 employees in 36 countries--and an early career in Washington, DC, produced the perfect resume for a Republican treasury secretary: corporate chieftain with global reach and government experience. He would be "a valued adviser", said George Bush, "and a steady hand." Six months on, Mr O'Neill is more notable for his loose tongue than his steady hand. The litany of O'Neillisms almost rivals the Bushisms of his boss. Only weeks into the job, he sent currency markets into a spin by musing that America was "not pursuing, as often said, a policy of a strong dollar." For years his predecessors had maintained that a strong dollar was a good thing for America. In subsequent remarks he has questioned the need for public pensions or government-supported health care for the elderly ("Able-bodied adults should save enough on a regular basis so that they can provide for their own retirement and, for that matter, health and medical needs"). He has written off the tax code ("9,500 pages of gibberish"), and brushed off nuclear accidents ("If you set aside Three Mile Island and Chernobyl, the safety record of nuclear is really very good"). Diplomatic niceties are clearly not his forte. He has called the European Commission "off the wall" and recently explained to The Economist that crisis-struck Argentina is a "laid-back" place with "no export industry to speak of", whereas Brazil is a "go-go, we-will-do-it, kind of place". Nothing upsets Argentines more than being compared unfavourably with Brazilians.  Ruffling foreign feathers loses few votes at home. Mr O'Neill's approach is more problematic with tricky domestic issues. In June he told investment-industry officials that Social Security has "no assets" and that those who are against its partial privatisation through individual accounts "just don't understand the facts". In fact, America's pension system does hold assets--$1 trillion of Treasury bills, to be precise--and there are plenty of ways to solve the system's looming funding problems without private accounts. Mr O'Neill does have a point: the trust fund's assets don't change the fact that more resources will be have to paid out (and spending cut or taxes raised) as the baby boomers retire. But his blunt comments were hardly a sensible opening salvo in a highly contentious debate.  This political tin ear is combined with peculiar priorities. Mr O'Neill is obsessed with workplace safety and paperless offices. He loves talking about how he made Alcoa a much safer place to work, and laments that the Treasury loses more days to worker injury than the aluminium giant--which is indeed sad. (The comparision is fair: the two have similar numbers of employees.) In April a Treasury memo was circulated urging people to reduce clutter in their offices and pointing them to a Treasury website that offered tips on how to do so safely. A recent visit seemed to indicate that this obsession had hit an extreme: the treasury secretary's office was completely empty, and Mr O'Neill was working at a table in a small ante-room. Mercifully, it turned out that his office was merely being redecorated. The truth is that Mr O'Neill has not adjusted from corporate America to Uncle Sam. He is appalled by the inefficiency of government. Five months, he reckons, was far too long to pass a big tax cut; at Alcoa a similar issue would have been settled in two weeks. He models his policymaking on his corporate successes. As boss of Alcoa, Mr O'Neill negotiated an international agreement limiting aluminium production. He now wants to do the same thing for steel--in six weeks. His views on economic policy are equally defined by his days at Alcoa. He wants to get rid of corporate income taxes (in fact, he managed to ensure that Alcoa avoided paying very many). Poor countries need to improve their productivity, but the World Bank must not encourage them to "invest in sectors that are already over-supplied".Some of Mr O'Neill's ideas--on steel, for instance--are rotten ones. Many others contain a germ of good sense. And it is fun to listen to a likeable, rather folksy man unafraid to speak his mind. But the problem is that government is not Alcoa, and the treasury secretary does not have the freedom of a corporate boss. Public musing about the merits of social insurance may be intellectually interesting, but it is politically daft, especially coming from a multi-millionaire. Nor is ranting about Washington's inefficiency a solid way of helping him to get things done.  Mr O'Neill is said to get on well with President Bush, who counts personal charm above public syntax. But Republican insiders say that on domestic priorities, such as Social Security and tax reform, Larry Lindsey, the top economics man in the White House, carries far greater weight. In the international arena, the United States is simply not playing the leadership role it used to under his more intellectual predecessors, Robert Rubin (a Goldman Sachs banker) and Larry Summers (a Harvard academic). They ensured that America set the international financial agenda and masterminded how to deal with economies in crisis (not always with brilliant results, it must be admitted). Now there is no global financial agenda to speak of, and the Treasury's international staff are twiddling their thumbs.  After two treasury secretaries whose brain power was never questioned even by their political foes, Mr O'Neill is a bit of a shock. Historically, he is not the exception; Messrs Rubin and Summers were. Mr O'Neill is merely the latest manifestation of a long tradition of corporate bigwigs who have served as relatively mediocre treasury secretaries. (Nicholas Brady, Treasury secretary under Mr Bush's father, was an earlier model.) For good or ill, the world has got used to looking towards America for leadership in economic policy. And that is something Mr O'Neill may be too much of a maverick to provide. 