Materials genomeDifference Engine Gateway to tomorrowMATERIALS matter. A century ago, an abundance of iron, lead and copper fuelled America's transition from an agrarian economy to an industrial one. Silicon, which is even more abundant, cemented that country's leadership in the latter half of the 20th century. But as products become more sophisticated, so the materials used to make them become more diverse.Daniel McGroarty, president of American Resources Policy Network (ARPN), a think-tank in Washington, DC, notes that a firm like General Electric now needs no fewer than 72 of the first 82 elements in the periodic table to manufacture its mix of products. Five rare-earth metals (dysprosium, neodymium, terbium, europium and yttrium), for example, possess unique magnetic, catalytic and luminescent properties that make wind turbines, solar panels, electric vehicles and efficient lighting possible. Tellurium and the platinum group of metals are likewise essential for clean energy, as well as for many products made by the consumer-electronics, health-care and defence industries. A shortage of these could stifle the development of better catalysts for biofuels, lightweight alloys for cars and planes, and synthetic membranes that replicate photosynthesis.This diversity of demand inevitably means some materials have to come from abroad. America's manufacturers are already dependent on foreigners for practically all their gallium, germanium, indium and scandium. Even once-common metals are harder to find. The country now has to import over a third of its copper, half its nickel and three-quarters of its tin, zinc and cobalt. And "abroad" does not always bow to America's needs. Several years ago, for example, China suddenly slashed exports of rare earths. American firms were not the only victims, but they certainly suffered.ARPN has therefore devised a "risk pyramid" for crucial materials. At the tip of this four-layer edifice are those metals and minerals mentioned most often in strategic-materials lists produced by the Department of Defence and other branches of government. At its base is a "watch list" of substances which, though strategic, have been cited only once. In between are two layers of materials of increasing concern. All told, the risk pyramid is a useful tool for guiding research and investment.What the pyramid does not identify, however, is the way a handful of materials are not only critical to manufacturing in their own right, but act as "gateway" elements whose production also yields many of the other materials crucial for innovation. Copper ore, for instance, often contains molybdenum, rhenium, selenium, tellurium, along with small amounts of rare-earth elements. Zinc ore is good for indium, germanium and cadmium. Aluminium refining contributes gallium and vanadium. Tin offers yet more indium and vanadium. And nickel processing provides cobalt, palladium, rhodium and scandium. This means that although the five gateway metals--aluminium, copper, nickel, tin and zinc--represent only 10% of the risk pyramid, they unlock 25 of the remaining 41 metals, accounting, all told, for 60% of the whole.As Gareth Hatch, a contributor to ARPN's report on the matter, points out, "The problem with technology metals is that our supply of them--or, more specifically, our maximum rates of production of them--is critically dependent upon our production of base metals." In other words, if domestic mining of the five gateway metals were curtailed for economic or environmental reasons, the knock-on effect would disrupt the supply of strategic materials needed for clean energy, super-alloys, catalysts, semiconductors, health-care products and flat-panel displays.Actually, America could be reasonably self-sufficient in at least three of the five gateway metals, having around 5% of known global reserves of aluminium, copper and zinc. Increasing their rate of extraction would thus help promote the country's technological leadership as well as bolster its security.That is unlikely to happen. Two examples show why. One concerns a firm in Arizona which has been trying to get approval to develop a copper deposit south of Tucson that could add an estimated 2,900 jobs to the local economy, but its application for a permit has been left in limbo while the United States Forest Service twiddles its thumbs. The other is a mining company in Alaska that has discovered what is believed to be the largest copper deposit in the United States, but has been frustrated by the threat of a pre-emptive veto from the Environmental Protection Agency. So, if America cannot bring itself to extract the materials it needs, yet wishes to avoid running the risk of being held to ransom by its rivals, it will just have to invent alternatives.One response to this has been the Materials Genome Initiative, announced by Barack Obama in 2011. Like its genetical cousin the Human Genome Project, the Materials Genome Initiative is intended to create a reference work--though in this case of atomic structures and physical properties, rather than DNA sequences. Other researchers can then use this to design new materials on computers, rather than bench tops.That might speed things up. It took two decades for lithium batteries to go from conception (in the mid 1970s) to market (in the mid 1990s). Some researchers talk of reducing this time tenfold--and even the more modest aim of the National Science and Technology Council, in Washington, DC, is "to discover, develop, manufacture and deploy advanced materials at least twice as fast as possible today, at a fraction of the cost."Babbage does not doubt that scientists will, one day, be able devise substitutes for a number of strategic materials. But as powerful as techniques like high-throughput combinatorial processing are, he does doubt that synthetic alternatives could be made available within the two to three years optimists talk about. Two or three decades would seem more likely. Before then, alas, Americans are likely to face shortages of numerous high-tech products that Chinese take for granted. If we are nice, they may sell us some.