MergersThe return of the dealPERHAPS British Airways is retiring Concorde too early after all. In its heyday in the 1980s and 1990s, the supersonic jet was full of investment bankers and advisers criss-crossing the Atlantic as they rode successive waves of mergers and takeovers. After the collapse of the merger market two years ago, Concorde was four-fifths empty (until the recent boom in "last chance" passengers). By the time it takes off for its final commercial flight in October, America and Europe could, on this week's evidence, be riding a merger wave worthy of the glory days of old.Some $26 billion-worth of agreed and hostile bids have been announced since the start of this month. In the past week there have been four quite big ones. Alcan of Canada has bid euro3.4 billion ($3.9 billion) for a rival aluminium giant, Pechiney of France. EMC, an American data-storage company, has bid $1.3 billion for Legato Systems, an American rival. ArvinMeritor, a car-parts firm created by a merger in 2000, is bidding for the venerable Dana Corporation of Toledo. And Yellow, a haulage firm, is bidding nearly $1 billion for Roadway, a rival, continuing the global consolidation of logistics. Several forces are pushing and pulling these takeover bids. On the push side are industries ripe for further consolidation, which has been delayed largely because of boardroom nerves and the horrid business conditions of the past three years. That has left lots of pent-up demand. The bid for Dana is a tidying-up exercise after a wave of smaller deals in the past decade that created ten global firms dominating the industry, supplying, as it happens, a similar number of big carmakers. Likewise the big aluminium bid is, in a sense, unfinished business from the three-way tie-up between Alcan, Alusuisse and Pechiney that was blocked by regulators in 1999 (see article). Similar mopping-up is expected in the travel and tourism business, as firms such as Le Meridien, a hotel group, and tour operators such as TUI, of Germany, and MyTravel, of Britain, seek salvation from the woes that have engulfed them since the September 11th terrorist attacks. Another European business with an overhang of deals is the defence-aerospace industry. France's Thales could soon be in play when the French government seeks to sell its stake, and EADS (a Franco-German-Spanish aerospace group) seeks to round out its portfolio with a good defence-electronics business. On the pull side, there is enough of a whiff of recovery in the air to stir animal spirits to do deals that have been pondered for a few years. Consider the technology industry, where leaders such as IBM, Cisco and Microsoft are awash with cash and hungry to make acquisitions that will take them into new markets by extending their technical reach. Similarly, Oracle's bid for PeopleSoft is likely to be only the first in a series of deals in an industry that is still splintered into hundreds of small and middleweight competitors, few of which seem likely to survive independently. The financial markets have helped. Low interest rates and a more receptive corporate-bond market help companies that need borrowed funds to make acquisitions (see article). A sustained recovery in stockmarkets on both sides of the Atlantic has led firms to start paying for their purchases not just in cash, but with shares. If the stockmarket rally continues, rising share prices will lure in more buyers. Some announcements have sparked bidding wars and other sorts of jostling, further suggesting that life is returning to the market. A couple of deals that had seemed to be done and dusted have suddenly become complicated again. In May, the owners of Selfridges, a once dowdy department store now revitalised as one of London's top retailers, accepted an offer of PS598m ($980m) from Galen Weston, a Canadian retailer. But soon after the deadline for bids, Robert Tchenguiz, an Iranian property tycoon, entered the fray, before withdrawing again this week. The sale of Hamleys, a large British toy store, also attracted a surprise rival bid. And some of the biggest media moguls have joined the auction of Vivendi Universal's American entertainment assets, even though the firm has decided not to include its Universal Music operation as part of the sale. Vivendi has picked five suitors to go through to the next round of bidding: NBC; Liberty Media (which has agreed to buy Comcast's majority stake in the QVC home-shopping network for $7.9 billion); Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer; Viacom; and an investment group led by Edgar Bronfman. Vivendi seems certain to exceed the minimum price of $11.5 billion that it has set for its film, television and theme-park businesses. The struggling French conglomerate hopes to conclude a deal by September. But the auction could yet turn into an even bigger fight. A sixth potential suitor, an investment group led by Martin Davis, was dropped from the shortlist because its offer was considered unattractive. But that might not stop Mr Davis, an oil tycoon who once owned 20th Century Fox. He is rumoured to be considering a higher bid or concocting a deal with one of the five that have made the short-list. Lastly, there is pent-up demand from the private-equity funds that, rather like company bosses, have spent the past couple of years sitting on the sidelines. In America alone, private-equity firms have over $100 billion-worth of equity to invest, a sum they can double or triple by adding on debt, says Steven Bernard of Baird, an investment bank that specialises in mid-market deals. Retailers are proving particularly tempting targets for private-equity investors. Many big stores occupy prime property locations, which have been increasing in value. These can be used to underpin the restructuring of balance sheets--in particular, by loading the firms up with today's cheap debt. Some or all of that debt can then be repaid by selling assets, such as property, that can be leased back for store use if necessary. Will the boomlet last? The profits of many non-financial firms are still depressed, while capacity utilisation in America is at a 20-year-low--and even worse in the IT industry. Much of the recent run-up in share prices appears to be betting on a sharp recovery in corporate profits. If that fails to happen, share prices may slump and the pace of mergers slow. Then there is the old, nagging question about whether mergers make business sense. Much navel-gazing followed the great merger frenzy of the 1990s, as boards of directors--their own mergers in ruins--solemnly dusted down old studies showing that mergers usually destroy value. Only this week, the Boston Consulting Group put out research showing that, of 277 big M&A deals in America between 1985 and 2000, 64% destroyed value for the acquirers' shareholders. (Interestingly, mergers in recessions or periods of low growth did better than mergers consummated in good times.) Still, that was 1985-2000. This, no doubt, is a new, more sensible, better managed era. It always is.