Metal tradingRinging the changesEVEN as the battle for control of the London Stock Exchange (LSE) is being played out on the international stage, a few streets away the London Metal Exchange (LME) is undergoing a quiet revolution of its own. Like the LSE, the LME is about to change its mutually owned structure--a vote is scheduled for September 14th. But unlike the LSE, which plans to merge with Deutsche Borse, Frankfurt's stock exchange, to form iX, and faces a hostile takeover bid by Sweden's OM Group, the metal exchange has no need for a foreign partner, and no plans to float on the stock exchange. Moreover, having attracted its fair share of scandal in the past, the LME is glad of the chance to get on with life away from the public gaze.The 123-year old LME is in the happy position of dominating trade in non-ferrous metals. Its $2 trillion-odd annual turnover accounts for some 95% of trading in its core non-ferrous metals: aluminium, copper, zinc, nickel, lead, tin and aluminium alloy. The worldwide benchmark prices are set for these metals at four daily open-outcry "rings" at its Leadenhall Street headquarters. As part of a big reform, the exchange is planning to introduce out-of-hours screen-based trading later this year. At least two competing electronic systems are in the offing. Spectron, a metal-trading platform run by a firm of energy brokers, has already done $1 billion-worth of business. But the LME's chairman, Lord Bagri, appears confident that neither it nor Nymex, LME's New York-based rival, will upset its dominance of global metal-trading, "unless we let them."Back in 1996, things looked far less rosy. Then the price of copper plunged as it emerged that Sumitomo's star copper-trader, Yasuo Hamanaka, had manipulated the market. The scandal raised questions about the running of the exchange. The LME protested that it could have done little about Sumitomo, since the Japanese trading house was not a member of the exchange. Indeed, many dealers felt that market volatility and the odd "squeeze"--where prices are forced up by somebody buying up available stock--were all part of the rough-and-tumble of metal trading. After all, the metal market is a wholesale business: there are no widows and orphans to worry about. Unfortunately for the exchange, that was not how users felt. The LME brought in a raft of new rules designed to increase transparency and to punish those who tried to "squeeze" the market. Since then the exchange's trading volumes have grown strongly, apart from a dip in 1998 because of the Asian financial crisis (see chart). Users have clearly continued to favour the LME over Nymex, although the New York exchange has enjoyed one victory. The LME introduced a silver contract last year. Nymex already offers a silver futures contract, and the London Bullion Market, better known for its twice-daily gold-price "fixes", runs a physical silver market. The LME's silver contract has flopped. Despite the growth in volume, the exchange's members are uneasy. The past few years have seen sweeping consolidation among mining groups, reducing the demand for hedging. And though volumes have grown, brokers say that much of this is derivatives business that does not generate commissions. The number of ring-dealing members (those entitled to take part in the ring's price-setting sessions) has fallen from 30 in the mid-1980s to 12 today. The decline is due to a shake-out among smaller members and consolidation among trading firms. Even Rudolf Wolff, one of the founders of the LME in 1877, has been taken over. The LME argues that the fall is more than offset by a rise in the next category of members, the Associate Broker Clearing Members who it says "are a 'who's who' of the top investment banks".Most important for the LME is the forthcoming restructuring. Lord Bagri admits that "nothing is sacrosanct"--even the ring. Within a few weeks, the LME will have picked the technology firm (OM is one candidate) that will run its out-of-hours screen-based system. Lord Bagri admits that the change in strategy was prompted by the threat to the LME's near-monopoly. Spectron is very proud to have "beaten the exchange to it". Lord Bagri points out that Spectron's vaunted $1 billion-worth of business would be done in an hour on the LME. And, so far at least, it has not harmed the exchange: it trades only LME contracts, and the exchange receives a fee for all such trades. EMetra, another rival, wants to go one better than the LME. Part-owned by Enron, an American energy company with big metal-trading interests, and Deutsche Borse, it hopes to enable users to exchange "over the counter" contracts as well as LME standard contracts. Its ownership may hamper its development. Ring-dealers may well be reluctant to quote on eMetra for fear of aiding a competitor.Nobody can tell what will happen to the ring, though the LME's users have said they want to keep it: they like its concentrated liquidity and transparency. Demutualisation should also give the LME more freedom to pursue other businesses. Like the LSE--and virtually every other exchange, for that matter--the LME fancies itself as a dot.com. It could use the platform for its regulated, metal-trading business to expand into the value-chain of metal delivery, for example, matching users with freight companies. Lord Bagri insists that he has no idea how much the exchange will be worth after demutualisation. Shareholders will be limited to 7.5% of voting rights, whatever their ownership stake, making a takeover unlikely. And, since it employs a staff of just 70, it has little fat to strip out. In June, Lord Bagri made a private speech to the Financial Services Authority, Britain's regulator. He warned it not to over-regulate the market. He complained that the FSA does not see the exchange as "partners in regulation". This market is for adults only, he implied--and they like it that way.