Metal scrapNorilsk Nickel co-owner Vladimir Potanin has stolen a march on Rusal owner Oleg Deripaska in the battle for control of Norilsk Nickel and consolidation of Russian metallurgy, by forging an alliance with the owners of miner and steel producer Metalloinvest. Unusually, given the stakes, there is no sign of political interference in the battle; yet this does not necessarily mean that the authorities are prepared to adopt a hands-off approach to big business.When United Company Rusal, run by Oleg Deripaska, last month completed his acquisition of nearly 30% of Norilsk Nickel--including the 25% plus one share stake of Norilsk co-owner Mikhail Prokhorov--it seemed to be in the box seat to gain control of Norilsk and thus create a Russian metals giant under his command. UC Rusal--created in 2006 by the merger of Mr Deripaska's Rusal, second-largest aluminium producer SUAL and the alumina assets of Swiss entity Glencore--is the world's largest producer of aluminium and alumina. It is unlisted. Norilsk Nickel is the world's largest producer of nickel and palladium and is a major producer of platinum and copper, with a market capitalisation of US$55bn.Events in late May have turned the situation on its head. To ward off UC Rusal, ahead of Norilsk Nickel's June 30th Annual General Meeting where Mr Deripaska and his associates intend to seek four seats on the nine-member board, Norilsk had entered into negotiations with mining and steel company Metalloinvest. On May 28th Norilsk announced that merger talks had been suspended as the unlisted Metalloinvest was looking to make an initial public offering (IPO). Shortly thereafter, it was announced that Interros, the investment vehicle of Mr Prokhorov's erstwhile partner in Norilsk Nickel, Vladimir Potanin, had agreed to buy a blocking minority stake (25% plus one share) in Metalloinvest. In addition, Metalloinvest owner Alisher Usmanov's fund Gallagher was to buy, or was in the process of buying, 10% of Norilsk Nickel. They left open the possibility of a three-way merger with UC Rusal.The battle for Norilsk Nickel is a result of the decision in early 2007 of Messrs Potanin and Prokhorov to go their separate ways, following Mr Prokhorov's brief detention by French police in connection with a probe into a prostitution ring. In late 2007 Mr Potanin declined to pay the price Mr Prokhorov wanted for his stake. The latter then struck a deal with the owners of UC Rusal, giving him an unspecified cash sum plus 11% of UC Rusal. Under the April deal, Mr Prokhorov has 14% of Rusal and has reportedly secured a cash settlement of just over US$7bn. In common with the leading SUAL shareholders Viktor Vekselberg and Len Blavatnik, Mr Prokhorov has the right to demand that Mr Deripaska buys out his shareholding if UC Rusal is not publicly listed by September 2009.Although many important details have not been made public, it seems that the Potanin-Usmanov deal is not a share swap. Until recently about 45% of Norilsk's stock floated freely; it appears that Mr Usmanov will acquire his 10% stake, if he has not done so already, from that source. If Metalloinvest has been valued in the Interros-Gallagher deal at US$20bn, as rumoured, the proceeds of the sale of the blocking stake would almost entirely cover the purchase of 10% of Norilsk Nickel on the open market.If that is the case, Messrs Potanin and Usmanov would together control approximately 40% of Norilsk Nickel, compared with the 30% shareholding belonging to UC Rusal. That seems likely to be sufficient to prevent UC Rusal gaining control of Norilsk Nickel at the June 30th AGM. For a number of reasons--the government's strategic political objectives, global trends in favour of consolidation among metals companies, and the financial situations of the Russian firms and their owners--consolidation in Russian metallurgy remains on the cards. By striking a deal with Mr Usmanov, Mr Potanin has taken a stride towards ensuring that he, not Mr Deripaska, will come out on top. This, of course, depends on the mooted deal actually going through.A three-way tie-up would create a huge company, with a valuation of between US$100bn and US$160bn, according to the Wall Street Journal Europe on May 30th. The enormous range reflects the fact that neither UC Rusal nor Metalloinvest are listed companies; although the companies themselves offer valuations of around US$50bn and US$28bn, market observers are less bullish.Despite the size of the companies involved and the political importance of the deal, there is no sign that Russia's presidential administration or cabinet has sought to influence the outcome of the battle for Norilsk Nickel or the consolidation of the metallurgy sector. A number of commentators see this as an encouraging development.Clearly it is positive, from the perspective of the business environment in Russia, that the authorities are not intervening currently. Yet to portray it as signalling a more hands-off approach to business in general, or even to the metallurgy sector from now on, may be unwarranted.It is plausible that President Dmitry Medvedev's administration and Prime Minister Vladimir Putin's cabinet are inclined to let the businesses involved sort it out for themselves. Yet it is equally plausible that the political elite are not taking sides because Messrs Potanin and Deripaska have approximately the same number of friends in high places. If that is the case, less well-connected companies and foreign investors have no reason to cheer.For the moment, there is no sign that the state intends to get a firm grip on metallurgy, as it has done on oil and gas, shipbuilding and aerospace. But metallurgy has been the subject of interest to Kremlin statists in recent years, and the establishment of a global metals giant with a market capitalisation of around US$100bn would be a tempting target--not least because of the risk that, as a listed company, it could eventually fall under foreign control. If a metals giant is created, the authorities are likely to want some degree of direct control or else to keep its controlling shareholders on a tight leash.If Messrs Potanin and Usmanov follow through on their announced deal, and as a result Mr Potanin is left in the driving seat as Russia's metallurgy giants combine, it will at least mark a victory for listed companies over unlisted ones. Mr Potanin's bargaining position has been strengthened by the fact that Norilsk Nickel has a market valuation and has undergone the disciplines needed to obtain one; Mr Deripaska's has been made more difficult because UC Rusal is not listed. In the absence of political intervention, this might just sway the sector's consolidation in Mr Potanin's favour.