Mining companiesGetting togetherTHREE big fish rule the pool of world mining: BHP Billiton, Anglo American and Rio Tinto. Now two middle-sized firms--Noranda, based in Canada, and WMC Resources of Australia--are likely to be gobbled up; one willingly, one not. An industry much altered since 2000 by consolidation is consolidating again.The willing target is Noranda, Canada's biggest mining and metals company. It was put into play in mid-summer when its 43% owner, Brascan, indicated that it was ready to sell. Having eyed various suitors, in September Noranda began exclusive talks on a 100% bid with China Minmetals, a big Chinese state-owned metals trader and producer eager to ensure security of supply. But in mid-November, with no deal done, Noranda opened the door again to other bidders, who may yet appear. That pleased some politicians and trade-unionists in Canada worried about its natural resources falling into foreign, state-owned hands and/or critical of Minmetals' human-rights record at home. But the two firms kept talking: their bosses met later, in Chile then, last week, in Cuba. Nearly 60% of Noranda's assets are outside Canada, but any foreign takeover would need official Canadian backing. Yet it is unlikely a Minmetals bid would be blocked. Like other miners, Noranda has seen turnover leap and profits soar this year. Sales should approach $7 billion for 2004 and profits exceed $500m. The stockmarket values Noranda, which is big in zinc and nickel, at some $5.5 billion. Minmetals is large, with a turnover of nearly $12 billion last year, but it would need finance from Chinese state banks, and might not get it. Across the Pacific, WMC faces a hostile cash bid from Xstrata, a newish name in world mining with big ambitions. London-quoted, Swiss-headquartered and already earning half its profits in Australia, Xstrata was a relatively small Swiss company until the winter of 2001-02. Then, led by Mick Davis, a former chief financial officer of Billiton, it went for a listing--as a British company--in London, traditional home of mining finance. Raising over $1 billion, it bought thermal-coal operations in Australia and South Africa, then, in mid-2003, MIM, an Australian firm, for $2.9 billion. This brought Xstrata coking coal, nickel, copper, zinc and more, and a turnover of over $6 billion this year. If Xstrata buys WMC, that would add more nickel, copper, gold and a giant new mine, Olympic Dam, in South Australia that WMC claims includes, in addition to copper and gold, one-third of the world's known uranium deposits. WMC's present turnover is only half of Xstrata's, but its prospects are huge. The stockmarket, at least, plainly expects other bidders to turn up: though Xstrata's offer, valuing WMC at $5.8 billion, was nearly 30% above WMC's share price a month before the bid, this week the market price suggested that investors are looking for a 45% premium.Indeed, analysts at CSFB suggested that WMC might be worth 60% extra. (CSFB's equity arm owns 24% of Xstrata.) To Xstrata, possibly. Consolidation in mining is not just about "bigger means better", nor even bigger means cheaper, because economies of scale can be difficult to capture beyond a certain point. But in mining, size does bring diversity, of commodity, region and political risk, as well as operational flexibility. This was what drove the Anglo-Australian merger that in 2001 gave birth to BHP Billiton; and a second-rank company trying to join the big league, as Xstrata is, well knows it.