Mining in ChileFriends againALMOST a year has passed since Codelco, Chile's state-owned copper company, said it would borrow $6.75 billion from Mitsui, a Japanese trading house, in order to exercise a long-standing option to buy a 49% stake in Anglo American Sur (AAS), a lucrative mining complex in central Chile. Since then, Anglo American, the conglomerate that controls AAS, has fought tooth and nail to block Codelco. It sold a 24.5% stake in AAS to Mitsubishi, a rival of Mitsui, and told Codelco it would have to settle for a similar-sized stake. Codelco responded by taking both Anglo American and Mitsubishi to court. In May, Codelco's boss resigned. The head of Anglo American, Cynthia Carroll, has come under pressure to follow him.But on August 23rd all four parties reached a deal to end this bitterest of mining disputes. Anglo American will retain control of AAS, but with a reduced shareholding of 50.1%. Codelco and Mitsui will take 29.5% through a joint venture, while Mitsubishi will keep the remaining 20.4%. Anglo American has also agreed to throw in a couple of smaller copper deposits as part of the deal.Codelco's unions have accused the company of capitulation. They insist the firm should have held out for the full 49%. "As a country, we don't know how to defend what's ours, and we've seen that during these negotiations," said Raimundo Espinosa, the most powerful union leader at Codelco. Unusually for a union man, Mr Espinosa sits on the firm's board, and was the only member who voted against the agreement.However, litigating the case would have taken around four years, and cost millions of dollars. It would also have risked tarnishing Chile's reputation as a safe place for foreign investment. The conflict prompted a spike in anti-British sentiment, and even elicited rare calls for resource nationalisation in Latin America's most business-friendly country.Instead, the deal will allow Codelco to pay just $1.7 billion for a stake in AAS that it values at $5.4 billion. Meanwhile, Anglo American will keep its prime Chilean asset, and the two Japanese companies will maintain a firm foothold in a copper industry that is booming thanks to relentless demand from China. By reaching a settlement, the companies will now be free to focus their efforts on mining, not fighting.