Mining in South AfricaHeavy pressureIn a hole"MINING is a big, hairy, risky business," says Barry Davison, boss of Anglo Platinum, the world's biggest platinum miner. The South African is fond of risk. His office is in crime-ridden central Johannesburg; in his spare time he hunts bears, boars, deer, pheasant and wolves. And his firm is spending 20 billion-30 billion rand ($2.7 billion-4 billion) expanding production in South Africa.Platinum prices have boomed for years and are likely stay high, partly because only two countries, South Africa and Russia, supply almost all the metal. The main risk in this investment comes from the government, which does not please Mr Davison at all. "We need certainty in mining, to know that this is still an attractive destination to invest in. There are unknown costs in South Africa, imposed by the black empowerment charter or by the imposition of too high royalties." His worries are echoed across the mining industry, as goldminers, coalminers and others address three related pressures: new laws, a strong currency and lawsuits. Are South African mining firms under unbearable strain?The first is causing most debate and is shaking up the industry. New regulations for miners (and other firms) aim to create greater black ownership in a white-dominated business, and more revenue for the government's coffers. A mining charter requires that a minimum stake of 15% in all mining firms must be owned by black investors within five years, rising to 26% within a decade. Now companies are scrambling to meet these targets. Earlier this month, Harmony Gold Mining and black-owned African Rainbow Minerals said that they would merge to form the world's fifth-largest producer, HARMony, a company worth 20 billion rand. Observers say Harmony may have paid above market rates to acquire ARM's shares due to pressure for greater black involvement.Last year's mining law in effect expropriated ownership of land from private miners. Now the government is introducing another bill to claim royalties from minerals dug out of that land. No mining company disputes the government's right to do this. But they warn that the extra tax--likely to take 2-8% of revenues, depending on the mineral--will discourage investment and may force closures and job losses. Earlier this month Harmony said that it might shed 10,000 jobs if conditions worsen. Some 500,000 people work in South Africa's mines. AngloGold's boss worries that South African mines are becoming less competitive.No doubt much of this is just bleating by unhappy mining executives as they negotiate with the government to lower the royalty rates. Mr Davison, who is also president of the Chamber of Mines, says that talks with the Treasury about those rates are going well. Ironically, the companies likely to be worst hit by the new royalties are small, black-run mines that are barely profitable.Matters have been made worse by the rand, which has strengthened from nearly 14 to the dollar 17 months ago to under eight to the dollar this week. All exporters are grumbling, but miners, despite efforts to hedge against currency swings, seem especially pained. This month Harmony reported a 49% drop in profits in the first three months of 2003; AngloGold says it expects earnings for the first half of this year to be sharply down too. Coal exporters are downcast, as they also face low global prices for the black stuff. Mining share prices have tumbled. Along with manufacturers, miners want the central bank to cut interest rates fast, in an effort to weaken the rand.A third threat is out of government hands. Mining firms, in particular, face several lawsuits, which South Africa's president, Thabo Mbeki, says he does not support. On May 19th, 60 firms face a first hearing in a case brought in New York by Edward Fagan, a lawyer noted for collecting big pay-outs from firms, who is suing for $100 billion for victims of apartheid. The firms are accused of doing business with, and supporting, the white-minority South African government even after a United Nations ruling that apartheid was a crime against humanity. AngloAmerican and de Beers are being sued by Mr Fagan for $6.1 billion for exploiting workers during the apartheid years. Mr Fagan is also suing Gold Fields, another gold producer, for $7 billion. It allegedly exposed workers to uranium contamination. A big, hairy, risky business indeed.