Mining giants switch bossesNew heads for a new cycleMINING is a cyclical business. If China's epic demand for commodities has done much to disguise that fact in recent years, a slew of changes at the top of the big Western mining firms is a timely reminder that it is still true. The latest casualty, Tom Albanese, was shown the door by Rio Tinto on January 17th. His departure is the latest sign that investors reckon a change of leadership is required for the next phase of the cycle.Rio's decision comes after Cynthia Carroll said last October that she would step down as boss of Anglo American. A couple of weeks later it was reported that BHP Billiton, the world's biggest mining company, is seeking a successor to Marius Kloppers, suggesting that he may remain only for another year or so. The terms of a merger between Glencore and Xstrata mean that Mick Davis, Xstrata's boss, will also soon be looking for a new job.The clear-out is no coincidence. With the exception of Mr Davis the current crop were all appointed in 2007. If mining bosses have a shelf-life, they may all have reached the end of it. Moreover, none has been entirely successful in profiting from sky-high commodity prices.Each of the mining giants claims to have been the first to notice the rise of China--which now consumes 40% of the world's industrial metals--and to have reacted fast. In fact, they were all slow off the mark. The current bosses took office with a remit to catch up. But things have not gone well. Soon after taking over, Mr Albanese won a bidding war for Alcan, paying $38 billion for a Canadian aluminium company that, it transpired, could not compete against Chinese firms with access to dirt-cheap capital. He leaves under the cloud of his firm's latest huge write-down, of up to $11 billion, on the business.Mrs Carroll had hoped to beef up Anglo's iron-ore operations with a new mine in Brazil. But it has got tangled in the country's notorious red tape and may never recoup its cost ($8 billion so far). Under Mr Kloppers BHP attempted a mega-merger with Rio, then a joint venture with Rio's vast Australian iron-ore businesses, and then a bid for Canada's Potash Corp--all without success. BHP also took a big write-down last year on the acquisition of Petrohawk, an American shale-gas business.Huge profits--BHP made a record $31 billion in 2010--made the miners "too hungry for growth", according to Myles Allsop of UBS, a bank. Another theory has it that mining engineers (like Mr Albanese, Mrs Carroll and her successor, Mark Cutifani) get sentimental about their massive projects and find it hard to make tough decisions about them. BHP, the mining giant in the best shape, is also run by an engineer. But Mr Kloppers's enthusiasm for huge holes in the ground may have been tempered by his years as a management consultant. Perhaps more reassuringly, Sam Walsh, Rio's new chief, spent 20 years in carmaking before joining the firm in 1991.Some say that accountants such as Mr Davis and Ivan Glasenberg, the boss of Glencore, are more pragmatic about shutting or selling underperforming mines, and more cautious about investing in costly and uncertain new ventures. Belatedly, their big mining rivals are pulling back on some extravagant new projects.Now that China's growth rate is slowing and commodity prices appear to have peaked, the mining industry's next set of bosses will need to abandon their predecessors' empire-building and concentrate on cutting costs and preserving capital. They will need good diplomatic skills to counter a wave of "resource nationalism" in countries, both rich and poor, that have mineral reserves. The next phase of the mining cycle is likely to be a bit duller than the one now ending, and it will require fewer swashbucklers and more politically astute bean-counters.