Mining mergersThe big digAFPWHEN Marius Kloppers succeeded Chip Goodyear as chief executive of BHP Billiton, an Anglo-Australian mining giant, he assured investors that their attitudes to mergers and acquisitions were "almost" identical. What he meant by that became apparent on Thursday November 8th when the world's biggest miner admitted that it had "recently" offered to buy Rio Tinto, another vast mining conglomerate.Rumours of a tie-up between the two had swirled around the mining industry for some time but his predecessor never quite went as far as Mr Kloppers. Such a deal would constitute one of the biggest takeovers of all time. Mr Kloppers, who assumed the helm of BHP Billiton on October 1st with a reputation as an ambitious and aggressive dealmaker, did not wait long to show that he was ready to attempt a deal that will reshape the mining industry.Rio Tinto was quick to reject a proposal that would create a mining company worth over $350 billion. The London-based firm complained that the all-share offer was not nearly generous enough. But excited investors pushed up Rio Tinto's share price by some 30% in anticipation of a sweetened deal. BHP Billiton is unlikely to be put off at this early stage of the pursuit. Particularly as a combined entity would dominate the world mining business as a leading producer of copper, aluminium, uranium and coking coal as well as rivalling Brazil's CVRD as the biggest supplier of iron ore.BHP Billiton is in a strong position. All the world's leading mining companies are in the midst of an unprecedented time of plenty. Metals prices have soared in recent years, mainly because of growing demand from China and other booming economies. That, in turn, has lifted mining firms' profits and share prices. The result has been a wave of mergers as the industry's bigger firms used their new-found wealth to buy up smaller rivals with the aim of diversifying, as a hedge if the good times turn bad, or strengthening their hand in specific metals. The approach to Rio Tinto came just as the firm had concluded a deal to acquire Alcan, a Canadian aluminium firm, for $38.1 billion in cash. Perhaps now feeling the pinch, Rio Tinto said on Thursday that it would sell some or all of its sizeable American coal-mining interests. BHP Billiton, on the other hand, has largely stood aside from the merger frenzy save for the acquisition of WMC Resources, an Australian nickel and uranium miner, for $7 billion in 2005. Mr Kloppers's audacious move makes sense. By some estimates the combined firm could make cost savings of $1 billion a year or more. And the bigger the mining company the more pricing clout it would have with Asian customers. Such a huge firm would be better placed to make the huge investments required in out-of-the-way parts of the world where vast new mineral deposits are generally found. A deal would come with several risks attached. The dominant position that the new firm would enjoy is sure to attract the attention of competition watchdogs around the world. If a combined firm is forced to sell prized assets the shine may come off the proposed merger. Another fear voiced by some in the mining industry is that all the dealmaking has come at a cost. The supply of tempting takeover targets is finite. And while mining companies have concentrated on mergers, the exploration and development vital to finding new deposits of minerals to replace ageing mines has suffered.Mining firms are spending more each year on hunting down new reserves--they stumped up a combined total of some $7.5 billion in 2006--but this may not offset many years of underinvestment. And the stripping out of costs that accompanies a merger often hits this part of mining businesses hard. BHP Billiton has done more than others to dig new holes in the ground. But there is a risk that striking mega-deals might distract mining bosses from the main task of digging stuff out of the ground.