Mining in South AfricaUnderminedTHE past five years have been a good time to be in the mining business. Commodity prices have boomed, boosted by healthy economic growth and China's appetite for minerals. According to PricewaterhouseCoopers, a consultancy, the world's big mining companies had a spectacular year in 2005, with investment increasing by about 30% and profits by almost 60%. Except, that is, in South Africa.According to figures published last week by the South African Chamber of Mines, investment in the country's mining sector declined by almost a third in 2004 and 2005. South Africa's mineral operating profits grew by just 12% in 2005, and production fell by 6% in the first half of this year. Why does one of the world's top mining countries seem to be missing out on the commodities boom?Currency movements are partly to blame. The value of the rand against the dollar (in which commodities are priced) more than doubled between December 2001 and December 2004, offsetting commodity-price increases. Congested railways and ports have also been a problem, especially for coal and iron ore. And gold, once the pillar of South Africa's mining wealth, has been in decline. Although South Africa remains the world's largest gold producer, costs have risen and production has dwindled. Platinum and coal now generate more money.But another big problem, according to a survey carried out by the Chamber of Mines, is red tape and regulatory uncertainty, which have cost the sector 5-10 billion rand ($0.7 billion-1.4 billion) a year in lost investment. In 2004 mineral rights were transferred from private to state hands, and firms must convert their existing licences into new ones. To do so, they must establish labour and social programmes and detail plans to transfer 26% of their ownership into non-white hands by 2014, as part of South Africa's "black economic empowerment" initiative.Some of the big gold and platinum producers, such as AngloGold Ashanti, Gold Fields, Harmony, Lonmin and Aquarius, have been granted new licences for existing mines. Many others are still waiting, however. The government says their labour, social and ownership-transfer plans are often inadequate. But Peter Leon of Webber Wentzel Bowens, a Johannesburg law firm, says the delays are a symptom of a bigger problem. He argues that the rules that regulate the industry are too vague and do not include measurable, objective targets for labour and social reforms. This creates uncertainty and gives discretionary power to the Department of Minerals and Energy, which determines whether proposals are adequate or not. In some cases, mining firms are turning to the courts for answers. But until negotiations and court rulings resolve matters, much uncertainty remains. A further complication is that the government plans to require mining firms to pay royalties but has yet to finalise its proposals. A recent survey by the Fraser Institute, a Canadian research body, ranked countries by their governments' mining policies. South Africa came 37th out of 64, behind Ghana, Mali and Botswana. Chile, where mining licences are awarded by the courts based on clear criteria, ranked fourth. Big companies are unfazed. Anglo Platinum, for example, has not yet received converted rights for existing mines, but is confident that it will, and says the delays have not affected operations or investment. But smaller mining firms contemplating risky investments may take a different view. About half of global exploration is now undertaken by smaller firms, most of them Australian and Canadian. According to Metals Economics Group, a research outfit in Canada, spending on exploration between 2003 and 2005 increased by 123% globally, but by only 60% in South Africa.Things are looking up, however. The rand has weakened in the past 18 months, and rail and port facilities are being improved. The Department of Minerals and Energy has said it will issue new prospecting licences within six months of application, and mining ones within one year, and the pace has accelerated in recent months. Investment in the sector also seems to be picking up. So in spite of the troubles of the past two years, there could be light at the end of the tunnel. 