MiningShock and oreIN THE dry, dusty town of Dampier on the west coast of Australia, a gigantic machine lifts up railway cars, two at a time, and tips out their contents--roughly 110 tonnes of iron ore apiece. The crushed rock falls onto a conveyor belt, which carries it to ships queuing up in the nearby harbour. They, in turn, will distribute it to steelmakers around the world--at a price. In late December, Rio Tinto, the mining firm that owns the facility, announced that one of its biggest customers had agreed to pay 9.5% more for iron ore in 2007, in line with price rises announced by other big producers. The latest increase follows jumps of 19% in 2006 and 71.5% in 2005 (see chart).Steelmakers around the world are chafing at this long run of price rises. Indian firms are calling on the government to cap exports of iron ore, to ensure affordable local supplies. The Chinese authorities are making it harder for small producers to import iron ore, to reduce competition for the stuff. Some steelmakers, including Arcelor Mittal, the world's biggest, are developing ore deposits of their own.But demand still outpaces supply, thanks to fast and unforeseen growth in countries like China and India. "We can sell every tonne we produce, and more," says Dave Smith, the managing director of Pilbara Iron, a division of Rio Tinto. He says his firm is working flat out, in difficult conditions, to increase supply. The port at Dampier, for example, could handle no more than 68m tonnes of ore in 2003. By the end of 2006, its capacity had almost doubled, to 116m tonnes. By the end of 2007, it should reach 140m tonnes. The firm's other port in the region, Cape Lambert, is also expanding rapidly.Naturally, Rio Tinto is also expanding its mines and the railways that ferry ore from the interior to the ports on trains more than 2.5km (1.6 miles) long. Back in 1998, when the firm opened a new mine called Yandicoogina, planners expected a slow expansion in output to 15m tonnes a year in the remote future. But it is already producing 36m tonnes, and should reach 52m by the end of 2007. The firm is also doubling up tracks on its rail network--the world's biggest in private hands.All these expansion schemes have cost Rio Tinto A$5 billion ($4 billion). But growth is getting more expensive, as other mining firms, and Western Australia's booming oil and gas industry, compete for labour and materials. "We have a shortage of just about everything," Mr Smith complains. The delivery of new locomotives to pull the ore trains, among other items, has fallen behind schedule. The price of tyres big enough to fit the mining firms' gargantuan trucks has doubled in recent years, he says, while construction costs for new facilities have increased by half. Workers themselves are another problem: with labour in short supply, oil and mining firms are poaching staff from one another. The annual turnover of employees has reached 100% at some of Rio Tinto's sub-contractors. Shops and restaurants in the mining region are short-staffed, hotels and flights are fully booked, and car-hire agencies have no vehicles to spare.Obtaining permits can also cause delays. All construction projects must meet strict rules concerning damage to the environment and aboriginal heritage. The bureaucrats who process this paperwork are overstretched, says Mr Smith, in part because many of their colleagues have resigned to drive trucks in the mines. At Tom Price, Rio Tinto's biggest mine in the area, managers point out scrub-covered hillsides whose cultural significance they are debating with the authorities. Even the weather slows things down: six cyclones battered north-western Australia in 2006, and another is now prompting closures at several mines and ports.Rio Tinto's scale--it is one of the world's biggest mining firms--should help it cope with these pressures. It pools its procurement to increase its clout with suppliers and to allocate goods where they are most needed. Even so, says Mr Smith, "We're only barely keeping pace." It will be a little while yet, it seems, before the world's steelmakers get much relief. 