Mining mergersProspects for a thawCorbisTHE giants of the mining industry might be forgiven a little wistfulness. Just over 18 months ago rumours were rife that a wave of mega-mergers was on the way, the product of persistently high commodity prices. This culminated in a bid by one of the world's biggest diversified miners, BHP Billiton, for another, Rio Tinto, in November 2007. In the wake of BHP's approach to Rio more huge deals seemed likely. Might, for example, Vale, a Brazilian giant, bid for Xstrata, which has its headquarters in Switzerland, or could Xstrata bid for Anglo American, based in Britain?Even as steel mills around the world fall silent, mining's rumour mill is cranking up again. Recently talk has centred on whether BHP will revive its failed bid for Rio. A spoiling Chinese investment, restrictive competition rules, Rio's debt burden and nervous regulators would make this difficult, though not impossible. Others moot that Xstrata and Anglo might join forces. In the biggest deal so far this year, Grupo Mexico this week offered $2.9 billion to regain control of Asarco, an American former subsidiary that is in Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection, topping rival bids from a hedge fund and Vedanta, India's biggest mining firm.Although the hubbub about mergers sounds familiar, almost everything else has changed for the worse for the mining industry since those heady days. Back then takeovers were tempting not least because the industry was producing shovel-loads of cash and record valuations made purchases with shares alluring. Since then, however, commodity prices have thudded back to earth as the world economy has slumped and China's red-hot growth has cooled off.The reversal of fortunes for miners has been staggering. Copper, which at its peak in July 2008 traded at nearly $9,000 a tonne, slumped to below $3,000 at the beginning of this year. Other metals have suffered a similar clobbering. And in late May the annual negotiations to fix a benchmark price for iron ore between its three biggest producers (Rio, BHP and Vale) resulted in Japan's steelmakers securing a price cut of 33% from last year.That is not enough for China's steelmakers, which are abandoning the 40-year-old system for fixing the price of iron ore and demanding an even fiercer cut. Some steel firms have also taken advantage of the low price to invest in iron-ore mines of their own.Perhaps the best indication of the shifting balance of power within the industry is the endless upheaval at Rio. Chinalco, an aluminium company controlled by China's government, at first bought 9% of Rio to foil BHP's takeover bid, which steelmakers feared would leave a single firm with a near-monopoly in iron ore. BHP later abandoned the bid, at the height of the credit crunch, because of concerns about financing its target's vast debts. That crushing debt forced Rio to strike a further deal with Chinalco in February: in return for $19.5 billion the Chinese firm would receive shares in some of Rio's most profitable mines and convertible bonds that would allow it to raise its stake in the parent firm to 18%.Uproar from shareholders, who were not given the chance to participate in the fund-raising, forced a renegotiation to limit Chinalco's stake. The wrangling may even cause the deal to collapse. It was struck when commodity prices were near their trough and looks too generous now that they have recovered somewhat (see Buttonwood).Copper now trades at nearer $5,000 a tonne. The price of iron ore may be falling, but this year's drop in benchmark prices is the first since 2002. Even if China forces through a 40% cut, that will merely bring the price back to 2007 levels. Mining firms' shares, which plummeted in response to the credit crunch, have perked up a lot since the beginning of the year. Rio's have doubled in price since January and almost trebled from their low point late last year.Light at the end of the shaftThe barren landscape of an open-cast mine is unlikely ground to nurture green shoots, but most analysts and industry insiders reckon that they can see plenty. Growth may have slowed in China and India, but the urbanisation that drives demand for copper and steel seems bound to resume before long. Meanwhile, many governments' attempts to revitalise their economies involve big infrastructure schemes that will require lots of metal. Senior executives at mining firms say that the rise of China and other developing countries means that the industry will not suffer a flashback to the 1980s and 1990s, when supply and demand remained in balance and commodity prices stayed low.In part, that is because supply looks surprisingly tight. Mining companies dashed to raise production while prices were soaring. But rapidly rising earnings masked huge cost increases, particularly in fuel and wages. So when the fall in commodity prices hit earnings, mining firms responded with swift and deep cuts, closing mines and deferring new projects. Anglo has said that it will halve capital expenditure this year. McKinsey, a consultancy, expects that investment across the industry, at $62 billion, will be roughly half what it was last year and will fall again in 2010. Cutting capital expenditure causes the pipeline of new projects to dry up faster. Lower exploration budgets mean that the big miners are less likely to unearth the "tier one" assets they crave--long-lived and low-cost deposits that are nearly certain to remain profitable no matter what happens in fickle commodity markets in the seven to ten years it takes to bring them into full production. And politics tends to compound these problems. Mining giants were enraged by forced renegotiations of existing deals last year by governments in such places as Congo, Guinea and Mongolia and are now warier of making big investments in risky parts of the world."Junior" miners, exploration companies that provide another source of future assets by taking on the risky discovery and early development of new mines, have been brought to a standstill by the dearth of debt to finance their activities. Perhaps wisely, big miners have eschewed using their precious resources to mop up medium-sized companies on the cheap, as some had predicted. Many of these firms, which tend not to produce ore as cheaply as the "majors", could go out of business.The proportion of existing mines in flabby middle-age is growing as the rate of discovery of new tier-one assets has slowed over recent years. For example, BHP reckons that 35% of Chile's copper production capacity is from mines that are more than 50 years old and 70% from those more than 20 years old. As mines age, ore grades decline, since the best stuff is usually dug up first.The big mining companies all believe that high commodity prices will return, although no one is prepared to say when. The easiest way of acquiring more tier-one assets to exploit during the next boom, while stripping out costs into the bargain, may be the revival of the mega-merger. 