Mittal's victoryTHE fierce takeover battle between Arcelor and Mittal Steel has brought a dose of excitement to the steel industry. After a five-month takeover battle Mittal, already the world's biggest steelmaker, will now forge a much larger firm. On Sunday June 25th, Arcelor's board accepted an offer of EUR25.6 billion ($32.2 billion), some 40% higher than the first bid in January. This will create a firm well over three-times bigger than its nearest rival. It is a notable victory both for Lakshmi Mittal, the Indian steel tycoon behind the offer, and for Arcelor's shareholders. Other European investors are sure to note this rare example of shareholder triumph.Mr Mittal has long thought that the industry would become dominated by companies that produce more than 100m tonnes of steel a year. But instead of achieving this by snapping up smaller steelmakers as before, in January he surprised most observers with a bold attempt to grab Arcelor, the second-biggest steelmaker. Mittal Steel hopes that its low-cost production and Arcelor's high-margin markets combined with the new firm's greater power to set prices and negotiate for cheaper raw-material will maintain a boom set off by China's huge appetite for the metal. Mittal's initial approach to Arcelor sparked a war of words and deeds. Guy Dolle, Arcelor's chief executive, used every tactic to frustrate Mittal's bid, which he called "150% hostile". He was helped by the attitude of Europe's politicians. The governments of France and Luxembourg in particular were aghast that a "foreign" firm was intent on snaffling a European champion, though Mittal itself is registered in the Netherlands and run from London. Resistance to the deal coincided with a wave of economic nationalism across Europe as governments tried to engineer deals between domestic firms to ward off cross-border rivals.Arcelor, buoyed by the antipathy of the governments of France and Luxembourg, used many means to deter Mittal. Arcelor tried to create a "poison pill" using Dofasco, a Canadian steel firm that it had recently bought. Later the firm proposed a share buyback, but denied the ruse was intended to hamper Mittal's bid. More unpleasant was Mr Dolle's attempt to paint Mittal as a firm that did not share European "cultural values". Saying Mittal suffered from "mono-cultural management" was a minor jibe; describing the offer as "monkey money" was far worse.Arcelor rubbished the quality of Mittal's steel and criticised its corporate governance. In May it orchestrated a white-knight deal of sorts. Severstal, a steelmaker from Russia, a country hardly known for high standards of corporate governance, stood ready to pay EUR13 billion to become a leading shareholder in Arcelor. And Arcelor used some suspect tricks. It asked that half of all registered shareholders vote against Severstal's approach rather than the--more usual--simple majority of those who actually voted. Arcelor brushed aside criticism by insisting that its articles of association and Luxembourg's statute book did not require any consultation at all.Shareholders became increasingly uneasy at Mr Dolle's attempts to save his job rather than strike the best deal. Talk of legal action, opposition to a share buyback designed to thwart Mittal's bid, threats to oppose the re-election of board members and investors' calls for Mr Dolle to resign all eventually pushed Arcelor to the negotiating table. The ire of shareholders also quietened political opposition. Luxembourg has shown less inclination to help Arcelor; France accepts that it is largely powerless to intervene.Shareholders must still endorse the deal but Mittal's high offer should ensure that they do. The creation of Arcelor Mittal, as the new firm is to be called, will encourage other fast growing firms from emerging markets to consider buying more staid European rivals. It may also do something to reverse the tide of economic nationalism that is sweeping Europe. And Europe's shareholders will note that standing up to managers that do not have their interests at heart is no longer such a forlorn enterprise.