Molycorp Files for Chapter 11, Fast Track Authority Passes the SenatePresident Obama and congressional republicans won a battle for trade authority in congress and a major rare earths restructured and sought bankruptcy protection.The US Senate voted Wednesday to give President Barack Obama "fast track" authority to negotiate trade deals--one of the final steps in a long political battle that pitted the White House against House Democrats in a battle over trade authority for the president. Fast track means deals such as the Trans-Pacific Partnership, which will be debated later this year, must be given an up or down vote by the Senate.Free Webinar: Are You Speculating When You Buy Spot Metals?The bill--which passed 60-38 in the Senate--will be sent to the president's desk. Separate bills to provide assistance to American workers displaced by trade deals, known as Trade Adjustment Assistance, and to provide tougher anti-dumping enforcement protections from US Customs and Border Protection, particularly for the steel industry, are expected to follow and possibly be signed by the president simultaneously.Molycorp, Inc. filed for chapter 11 bankruptcy protection today.The only US miner and producer of rare-earth elements--15 elements used in magnets, batteries, catalytic converters and other high-tech products--said it had secured an agreement with creditors to restructure its $1.7 billion in debt. The deal also provides $225 million in new financing to continue operations.Molycorp and 20 subsidiaries filed chapter 11 petitions in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington, Del. The company said it expects to exit chapter 11 before the end of 2015. The restructuring support agreement is with creditors that hold over 70% of the aggregate principal amount of the company's 10% senior secured notes.The Company's operations outside of North America, with the exception of non-operating companies in Luxembourg and Barbados, are excluded from the filings.  Molycorp Rare Metals (Oklahoma), LLC, with operations in Quapaw, Oklahoma, also is excluded from the filings as it is not 100% owned by the Company.Free Download: Latest Metal Price Trends in the June MMI ReportYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service