MonitorRocks on the menuEVEN the sleekest gadget depends on the mucky business of digging stuff out of the ground. Mobile phones and computers use copper for their wiring and rely on cobalt, germanium, lithium, nickel, platinum and tantalum for other components. Electric motors need magnets made of "rare earth" elements such as neodymium. But rising metal prices and China's tightening grip on supplies of rare-earth elements (it accounts for 97% of production), have heightened the appeal of finding other sources of supply. The result is growing interest in the use of rock-eating bacteria to extract metals from low-grade ores, mining waste or industrial effluent.Rock-eating bacteria such as Acidithiobacillus and Leptospirillum are naturally occurring organisms that thrive in nasty, acidic environments. They obtain energy from chemical reactions with sulphides, and can thus accelerate the breakdown of minerals. Base metals such as iron, copper, zinc and cobalt occur widely as sulphides, and more valuable metals such as gold and uranium are also present in the same bodies of ore. With a little help from the mineral-munchers, these metals can be released in a process called bioleaching.This approach has its pros and cons. To recover large quantities of metals quickly from ores with a high metal content, smelting remains the most profitable route. Bioleaching is slower, but it is also cheaper, making it well-suited for treating ores and mining wastes with low metal concentrations. It is also generally cleaner. Material containing poisonous elements such as arsenic is unsuitable for smelting because of the risk of pollution.For many years bioleaching has been used to recover gold from ores that are hard to break down using heat treatment (known as "roasting"). The bacteria are set to work in huge stirred tanks, called bioreactors, containing ground-up rocks and dilute sulphuric acid. The bacteria change one form of iron found within the ore (ferrous iron) to another (ferric iron) and tap the energy released. In acidic solutions ferric iron is a powerful oxidising agent. It breaks down sulphide minerals and releases any associated metals. In the past it has been hard to recover metals other than gold profitably in this way. But high commodity prices mean that bioleaching of a variety of metals has become an attractive prospect in recent years. In 2008, for example, a new venture started operating in Talvivaara, Finland. It was set up as the result of a European research project called BioShale, which showed that bacteria could recover nickel, copper, lead, silver, zinc, cobalt, rhenium, selenium, tin, gold, platinum, palladium and uranium from Europe's extensive but underexploited "black shale" deposits. Last year the Talvivaara Mining Company produced over 10,000 tonnes of nickel and 25,000 tonnes of zinc from local shales, and it plans to deliver 90,000 tonnes of zinc, 1,800 tonnes of cobalt and 15,000 tonnes of copper a year by 2012. In 2010 the firm started to extract uranium, and expects to produce 350 tonnes a year. Other metals may follow. In Chile, which has 30% of the world's copper deposits, BHP Billiton, a mining giant, has set up two bioleaching operations in the past three years, each aiming for around 200,000 tonnes of copper production a year. The Finnish and Chilean ventures both use bioheaps, which are vast, carefully engineered piles of ground-up ore (in Chile, 2,000 metres long, over 100 metres wide and nearly 20 metres high), irrigated from above with dilute sulphuric acid laced with bacterial cultures, and aerated from below. Using many different organisms within the heaps gives the best results, says Barrie Johnson, a researcher at the University of Bangor in North Wales, who has been working on bioleaching with Rio Tinto, another mining giant. "We find one ore type will suit one consortium of organisms, and another might be better with a different mixture," he says.Meanwhile a Canadian firm, BacTech Mining Corporation, which sells a bioleaching process for gold extraction, has set up a new division to apply the technology to mining waste. At the town of Cobalt in Canada it plans to remove toxic elements such as arsenic from old silver-mine tailings and extract cobalt, nickel and silver. "First and foremost, we are trying to remediate the environment," explains Paul Miller, vice-president of engineering at BacTech. "But by doing that, we also hope to recover valuable metals."Metals can also be extracted from polluted water. Water sources near disused mines are often contaminated, as water drains through old waste dumps. In Germany a firm called GEOS has set up a pilot plant on a coal-mining site to clean the iron-laced groundwater using bacteria. Organisms with slightly different dietary preferences, known as sulphur-reducing bacteria, show promise for removing dissolved metals from liquid industrial waste. Paques, a firm based in the Netherlands, has a commercial process for recovering zinc using such bacteria, and British researchers in Birmingham and Dundee have recently retrieved palladium and platinum in this way, too. Interest in bioleaching shows no sign of abating. As part of a European project called ProMine, geologists are mapping Europe's mineral resources to a depth of 5km (3.1 miles) in an effort to stimulate the mining industry and reduce dependence on imports. Integral to the project is further development of biological metal-recovery methods. In Europe, at least, mineral-munching microbes can expect long-term employment--and lunch. 