Nerves of steel in BrazilTHE surprise about the privatisation of Companhia Vale do Rio Doce (CVRD), the world's largest iron-ore producer, was not that it was accompanied by violent clashes between police and demonstrators outside the Rio de Janeiro stock exchange. Nor that the sale was delayed for a week by more than 130 lawsuits, including one injunction granted by a small-town judge on the curious ground that the privatisation prospectus had not been published in English. Such things are routine for Brazilian privatisations.The real shock was the identity of CVRD's new owner. The favourite had been a consortium that included South Africa's Anglo American and a stodgy Brazilian family business. Instead the winner was another consortium, headed by Companhia Siderurgica Nacional (CSN). It bid 3.34 billion reals ($3.15 billion) for a 41.7% controlling stake in CVRD.CSN, Brazil's largest steel maker, was itself privatised only four years ago. Benjamin Steinbruch, its 43-year-old chairman, is a relative upstart in Brazil's conservative business establishment. Though he hails from a family business (Vicunha, a textile group, which owns 14% of CSN's voting shares), two things mark him out from the Brazilian norm. The first is his willingness to adopt a collegial style of management at CSN. The second is his aggression. CSN has already snapped up stakes in several other privatised firms.Mr Steinbruch will need both these skills in tackling CVRD. CSN itself has bought only 16% of CVRD's voting shares, and much of its investment is being financed by taking on debt. His backers, which include America's NationsBank, are likely to require a fairly swift return. Though Mr Steinbruch has said he will keep CVRD intact for at least six months, few would be surprised if he went on to unbundle the firm's cellulose, fertiliser and aluminium businesses.Yet what he keeps could be the start of something bigger. CVRD's iron-ore business, its transport network, and its stakes in other steel makers are valuable trophies for CSN. Overnight, it seems, the firm has become a Latin American steel giant--and made Brazilian capitalism a good deal more exciting.