New European Commission Report Touts Removal of Trade BarriersAndrey Kuzmin/Adobe StackAs even casual watchers of world affairs and international commerce might have caught on to by now, protectionism -- or, at minimum, complaints of protectionism -- has been on the rise.Need buying strategies for steel? Try two free months of MetalMiner's OutlookThe current of protectionism has blown in many directions, from the U.S. Section 232 tariffs to the proposed tariffs on Chinese imports, not to mention the flurry of counter-tariffs (both proposed and actuated).The European Union struck back against the U.S. steel and aluminum tariffs this past week, imposing import tariffs on a variety of American goods, from steel and aluminum products to Harley-Davidson motorcycles. (The tariffs went into effect on Friday, June 22.)Nonetheless, the European Commission touted a new report this week that claims it "has eliminated the highest number ever of trade barriers faced by EU companies doing business abroad.""As the world's largest and most accessible market, the EU is determined to ensure that foreign markets remain equally open to our firms and products, E.U. Trade Commissioner Cecilia Malmstrom said. "Given the recent rise in protectionism in many parts of the world, our daily work to remove trade barriers has become even more important. Ensuring that our companies have access to foreign markets is at the heart of our trade policy. Today's report also underlines that effective solutions can be found within the international rulebook. As protectionism grows, EU enforcement of the rules must follow suit."According to the release, "45 obstacles were lifted fully or in part in 2017 - more than twice as many as in 2016.""The barriers removed spanned across 13 key EU export and investment sectors, including aircraft, automotive, ceramics, ICT & electronics, machinery, pharma, medical devices, textiles, leather, agri-food, steel, paper, and services," the statement reads. "Overall, this brings the number of barriers eliminated under the Juncker Commission to 88."E.U. companies exported an additional EUR4.8 billion in 2017 as a result of the removal of barriers from 2014-2016. Among those barriers removed were, according to the report:MetalMiner's Annual Outlook provides 2018 buying strategies for carbon steelThe full Trade and Investment Barriers Report can be read here.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service