Official Southern Border Wall Request for Proposal Documents ReleasedTwo requests for proposals were released yesterday by Customs and Border Protection for the planned border wall between the U.S. and Mexico along the southern border in several states.Benchmark Your Current Metal Price by Grade, Shape and Alloy: See How it Stacks UpNew descriptions in the RFPs include this language: "CBP seeks highly qualified Contractors to assist in the development of a new border wall design standard as well as construct border wall and supporting tactical infrastructure/technology along the southwest border. CBP seeks highly qualified Contractors to propose a reinforced solid concrete wall that meets or exceeds CBP's performance requirements. The proposed prototype designs shall not include the use of proprietary design or equipment. CBP plans to enter into multiple-award, indefinite-delivery, indefinite-quantity (IDIQ), task order contracts for Border Wall Design/Build Construction. The IDIQ may include various, simultaneous task orders ranging from $100,000 up to $275,000,000 per task order."CBP anticipates awarding IDIQ contracts to multiple Contractors. All selected Contractors will be awarded one (1) task order to construct its proposed prototype."The RFP goes on to state that "the prototypes will inform future design standard(s) which will likely continue to evolve to meet USBP's requirements. Any and all prototypes will be designed to deter illegal entry into the United States. Through the prototyping process, CBP may identify new designs or influences for new designs that will expand the current border barrier toolkit that CBP will use to construct a border wall system. The border barrier toolkit is based on USBP's requirements."The American Iron and Steel Institute, the largest trade body representing the steel industry,  issued a statement in reaction to the Trump administration's recent announcement that it is re-examining fuel-economy standards set by the Obama administration for 2022-2025 model year light-duty vehicles.Two-Month Trial: Metal Buying Outlook"AISI is pleased the administration has withdrawn the final determination of the EPA Light Duty Vehicle Emission Standards issued in January," Thomas J. Gibson, president and CEO of AISI said in the statement. "As a key materials solutions provider, we look forward to a dialogue between EPA, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, California Air Resources Board, auto manufacturers and other relevant stakeholders on the Mid-Term Evaluation. The steel industry is making investments in new grades of lightweight, high-strength steels to assist our automotive customers in reducing emissions and improving fuel economy performance.  We are confident that getting the partnership between the government and stakeholders back on track will result in a plan for the future which protects the environment by establishing a common sense, implementable single national program for CAFE and GHG standards."Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service