Oracle Acquires Textura, Takes on Construction Payments and the Financial Supply ChainOracle announced Thursday it agreed to acquire Textura, a cloud-based solution for the construction industry with end-to-end capabilities spanning from initial bid estimation and sourcing through to subcontractor management, communication and collaboration, invoicing and payment.Textura can not only catalog the cost of installation of this structural form, but also log its completion and pay the sub-contractor that put it in. Image: Jeff Yoders/MetalMiner."Textura's mission is to bring workflow automation and transparency to complex construction projects while improving their financial performance and minimizing risks," Textura CEO David Habiger said in a statement.Free Download: The April 2016 MMI ReportThe $633 million transaction values Textura at roughly eight-times trailing revenue and represents an over 30% premium to the previous day's close, a stiff price for a product that will complement Oracle Primavera, one of Oracle's existing construction project management lines. While Primavera offers a complete suite of cloud solutions for project, cost, time and risk management, our sister site, Trade Financing Matters, did a quick analysis that showed the combination suggests it will surely add to Oracle's arsenal with deeper industry and multi-tier engineering and construction (E&C) capability (a significant differentiator for Textura). Moreover, it will also complement other Oracle solutions, such as Project Procurement.In layman's payables terms, the Textura payment mechanism is essentially like a pull-system version of an evaluated receipts settlement approach. Participants in the supply chain are paid when suppliers at other tiers are paid. Who knew construction was more aggressive in its multi-tier working capital management (e.g., VMI + JIT Hubs in the high tech industry) than high tech!However even with Textura, E&C functional gaps will still remain for Oracle in any project's lifecycle, including providing the level of subcontractor on-boarding and compliance management capability that software and managed services providers -- such as Avetta, formerly PICS Auditing -- offer today.One area that piques our interest about the transaction, is that financial services company Greensill Capital helped develop Textura's Early Payment Program through a partnership. Payment is one of the biggest problems in the $2 trillion construction industry today. There are many unique challenges involved with providing financing for construction receivables, not limited to:Two-Month Trial: Metal Buying OutlookAs background on its solution, Textura rolled out an initiative back in April 2015 with Turner Construction as its launch partner client. The program is now available broadly to general contractors.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service