Paulson Slashes Gold ETF Bets, But Soros and Others Pick Up the SlackAs gold continues to flirt with $1,300 an ounce, some major investors are making opposite bets on the investment metal in the SPDR Gold ETF.Gold bull John Paulson slashed his bets on bullion while billionaire investor George Soros and other big funds returned to the metal for the first time in years, filings showed on Monday, as prices staged their biggest rally in nearly 30 years.Two-Month Trial: Metal Buying OutlookNew York-based hedge fund Paulson & Co., one of the world's most influential gold investors, slashed its investment in SPDR Gold Trust, the world's biggest gold exchanged-traded fund (ETF), by 17% to 4.8 million shares, Securities and Exchange Commission filings showed on Monday.Jiangsu Shagang, the listed unit of China's biggest privately-owned steel producer, said on Monday the Chinese government should provide steelmakers with even more support in their efforts to export products and shift capacity overseas. China's massive steel sector has come under growing international scrutiny, with foreign steelmakers accusing the country's firms of flooding the global market with cheap, subsidized steel and driving them out of business."As gold continues to flirt with $1,300 an ounce, some major investors are making opposite bets on the investment metal in the SPDR Gold ETF."Don't forget GLD allows its biggest holders to redeem for the underlying physical gold but everyone else is left holding the bag. Paper gold GLD claims to be fully backed by physical gold bullion but yet it refuses to give your everyday investors the right to redeem for any of these 'claimed' gold bullion. This fact alone would mean GLD shares are nothing more than paper at the end of the day. Furthermore, GLD's prospectus is chalk full of weasel clauses and legal loopholes that allows the fund to get away without the full physical gold backing. One good example of this is the clause that states GLD has no right to audit subcustodial gold holdings. To this day, I have not heard of a single good reason for the existence of this audit loophole. There are other issues as well that I've verified and welcome everyone else to do the same:"Did anyone try calling the GLD hotline at (866) 320 4053 in search of numerical details on GLD's insurance? The prospectus vaguely states "The Custodian maintains insurance with regard to its business on such terms and conditions as it considers appropriate which does not cover the full amount of gold held in custody." When I asked about how much of the gold was insured, the representative proceeded act as if he didn't know and said they were just the "marketing agent" for GLD. What kind of marketing agent would not know such basic information about a product they are marketing? It seems like they are deliberately hiding information from investors.I remember there was a well documented visit by CNBC's Bob Pisani to GLD's gold vault. This visit was organized by GLD's management to prove the existence of GLD's gold but the gold bar held up by Mr. Pisani had the serial number ZJ6752 which did not appear on the most recent bar list at that time. It was later discovered that this "GLD" bar was actually owned by ETF Securities."Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service