PlatinumKilling the platinum gooseNOT much has been going right for Zimbabwe. But sitting on the world's second-largest deposits of platinum--at a time when world prices are soaring--would normally be counted a piece of good fortune. Sadly, even this stroke of luck may be about to be ruined by the actions of Zimbabwe's feckless and dictatorial government.On March 3rd the country's minister of mines announced that 51% of all foreign mining shareholdings would have to be transferred to the government, half of them without compensation. Platinum started being mined in Zimbabwe only in 1994, but the country has already become the world's fourth-largest producer with an estimated 150,000 ounces last year. This is still dwarfed by South Africa, which dominates the global industry with 5.1m ounces of production--more than 75% of the world's total. But Zimbabwe is sitting on substantial platinum resources and big new foreign investments are on the way.The world's two largest platinum-mining companies, South Africa's Impala Platinum (Implats) and Anglo Platinum, have been eyeing Zimbabwe with interest. Anglo Platinum has been developing a new mine and is expected to start production in 2008. Implats, by far the largest platinum miner in Zimbabwe, has invested more than $250m over the past five years. It is contemplating a $2 billion investment plan for the next 5-15 years, which would more than triple its local production. The government's ideas could, however, bring these plans to an abrupt halt. The cash-strapped authorities are unlikely to be able to finance their share of the investment which is necessary to boost production, while mining companies cannot afford to shoulder all the costs for 49% of the returns. Operating in Zimbabwe is already difficult enough--with inflation raging above 780%, an unrealistic official exchange rate and crippling shortages of fuel and other basic commodities. Because agriculture is in meltdown, mining has become a prime source of foreign exchange for Zimbabwe, and the government considers platinum to be vital for the country's economic recovery. It has been courting Chinese investors, but so far this has not translated into anything tangible. Unless it changes course, it now risks killing its last large source of foreign exchange, pushing its economy further into the abyss.