Regulating the diamond tradeA crook's best friendJAMES BOND knows the trouble that "conflict diamonds" bring. In his latest film, "Die Another Day", stones smuggled from African war zones fall into the hands of an evil genius. Life imitates art: in December, European intelligence agencies said that al-Qaeda terrorists had used diamonds to move financial resources secretly around the world. Rebels in African countries such as Sierra Leone, Liberia, Angola and the Democratic Republic of Congo have long traded diamonds, timber and other minerals to pay for their weaponry. Angola's rebel army, UNITA, earned hundreds of millions of dollars by selling stones to legal traders, such as the De Beers cartel. The war in Angola is now over, but the illicit diamond trade has not ended with it.Efforts to stop the trade in conflict stones have had mixed effects. In the late 1990s United Nations sanctions on doing business with African rebel armies such as UNITA did stop De Beers buying, but other traders filled the gap. De Beers feared that controversy might scare off American shoppers, who buy the most stones. That was "a real threat to the diamond industry", says a De Beers spokesman. A campaign by several non-governmental organisations against "blood diamonds" threatened to tarnish the image of the entire industry, because retailers could not tell buyers from where a stone originated. So South Africa's government, the World Diamond Council and other interested groups have created a system of certificates, known as the Kimberley process, that is supposed to create a paper-trail from mine to store. Though it is voluntary, many other governments are supportive and De Beers, which controls roughly two-thirds of world diamond production, will trade only in certified stones. Ahead of the scheme's official launch on January 1st, over 50 countries had signed up. Will this succeed where other efforts failed? Though it is a restriction on trade, the World Trade Organisation seems unlikely to block the process. Illicit dealing may decline somewhat anyway, now that wars in Sierra Leone and Angola have ended. In December the UN lifted its sanctions against UNITA. But big problems persist. De Beers may be happy to sit (for now) on its large stocks of diamonds without certificates of origin, but other vendors will still seek buyers, even if prices for such stones are lower. Many traders in India, China and Italy are well known for demanding no paperwork. Alex Yearsley of Global Witness, a group that helped to raise awareness about conflict diamonds, says that firms will "be a bit more careful with their invoices, but if you're determined you can get around this process".Even some diamonds with histories attached may not be trustworthy. Mr Bond's latest foe simply marketed his diamonds as coming from Iceland. In the real world it is up to governments to endorse the certificates, but cash-strapped civil servants in remote corners of West Africa will struggle to monitor diamond trades in their countries. Forgery and bribery are inevitable. Those now trying to oversee the global diamond industry from a tiny office in Johannesburg also face a daunting task: without reliable statistics on the business and with few staff they may struggle to do much more than remind buyers and sellers that the voluntary Kimberley process exists. That may be a poor second best; if only they could recruit 007.