Renewables MMI® Solar Silicon Price Jumps, Tariffs Finally WorkingSilicon is essentially sand. But for use in semiconductors and solar panels it needs to be refined to a purity of 99.99999 %. This makes the second-most abundant resource in the world a commodity as its availability is limited by worldwide refining capacity.Free Download: Latest Metal Price Trends in the June MMI ReportWe have long lamented the trade war going on over refined silicon over the last few years. Big companies such as German-based multinational Solarworld, Inc., want higher prices, saying their panels are of higher quality than those offered by smaller, mostly Chinese, producers.Installers in US markets are reaping a windfall by using the cheaper panels for installations that are subsidized by states such as California and the low cost of the cheap imports. While it was kind of funny to see Solarworld wrap itself in the flag when it successfully petitioned the Commerce Dept. for tariffs on Chinese panels, and then Chinese silicon, itself, Solarworld has simultaneously stepped up its US presence and seems to be willing to fight for the US market.Meanwhile, Elon Musk's SolarCity, an entirely American-owned operation, is building a massive $5 billion
"gigafactory" in Buffalo, NY. When the silicon solar panel factory is completed and running full-tilt (projections within two years), it will be the biggest solar panel plant in North America. To run at full speed, the plant will need an elaborate network of suppliers and service firms to support it.Is there enough solar demand for companies like SolarCity and SolarWorld to get their prices increases AND see sales grow? A significant price spike in silicon in the renewables MMI this week is certainly a step in the right direction. The tariffs placed on Chinese panels and silicon seem to be having the desired effect, as well. The European Union renewed similar duties this week, essentially stifling Chinese exports to the West with high tariffs in both markets.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service