RPT-COLUMN-Tin output down in 2019 but market needs more producer discipline Andy Home(Repeats Friday's column with no changes to text) * (The opinions expressed here are those of the author, a columnist for Reuters) * Global Semiconductor Sales: tmsnrt.rs/2Pty8Vy * Indonesian Tin Exports: tmsnrt.rs/2T7W82T By Andy Home LONDON, Feb 28 (Reuters) - Global production of refined tin fell by 6.6% to 334,400 tonnes in 2019, according to the International Tin Association (ITA), but as the coronavirus outbreak saps demand and hobbles China's supply chains, it could fall to Indonesia to balance the market. Last year's production drop was down to lower run-rates in China, where smelters said in September they would curtail output in the face of a three-year low in the tin price and squeezed margins. Major Chinese producers such as Yunnan Tin, Yunnan Chengfeng and Guangxi China Tin saw year-on-year production falls of 7.5%, 16.6% and 10.9% respectively, according to the ITA. Not so Indonesia's state-controlled producer PT Timah, which concentrated its control over the country's production at the expense of independent smelters and more than doubled its output to 76,400 tonnes, surging past Yunnan Tin to claim the top global producer spot following a power play in Indonesia's fractious tin politics. The company's new quasi-monopoly on Indonesian tin processing sees it emerge as the key player in balancing any immediate dip in demand resulting from the coronavirus outbreak. Greater producer discipline going forward should prove a positive for the tin price in a market that looks as if it's going to need to further restrain output this year. London Metal Exchange (LME) tin tumbled from $17,900 per tonne to $15,690 over the last week of January as fears over the economic fallout from coronavirus chilled the entire base metals complex. A weak rebound ran out of momentum around the $16,750 level and prices are once again heading south with LME three-month metal touching a low of $16,000 on Friday morning. LME stocks hit a near five-year high of 7,595 tonnes on Tuesday thanks to the warranting of another 250 tonnes at Los Angeles, hot on the heels of the 1,000 tonnes that appeared at the same port on Feb. 17. Los Angeles is a highly unusual location for LME tin stock movements, which tend to be concentrated on Asian locations such as Singapore and Malaysia. Indeed, the last time Los Angeles held any LME-warranted tin was in April 2004 when total inventory was a single lot, or 5 tonnes. Absent any obvious pull from LME spread tightness, the influx of metal on the U.S. West Coast looks worryingly like a reaction to backed-up Asian supply chains. LME time-spreads, often prone to rolling backwardations, are currently relaxed with the cash-to-three-months period CMSN0-3 closing Thursday valued at a contango of $22 per tonne. Tin, like other industrial metals, is highly exposed to the freeze on supply chains caused by the multiple quarantine measures being imposed by governments to contain the virus. The city of Wuhan, the epicentre of the original outbreak, is a hub for high-end manufacturing, including semiconductors. Tin is used as a soldering agent in semiconductors and the sector accounted for almost half of total demand in 2018. Tin demand fell around 2% last year with weakness in semiconductors a key contributor, according to the findings of an ITA survey of consumers conducted in October last year. The Semiconductor Association estimates global sales fell 12.1% last year, reflecting "ongoing global trade unrest and cyclicality in product pricing." There was, however, a marked improvement in semiconductor trade over the fourth quarter and hopes were high for a turnaround in 2020 feeding through to better demand for tin. Those hopes are now steadily diminishing as the virus spreads. CHINA BOTTLE-NECKED Chinese metal producers normally keep operating over the Lunar New Year holidays, albeit at reduced rates, while downstream manufacturers shut up shop completely. Tin is no exception and the short-term threat is of a surge in unsold metal stocks as manufacturers delay their return to work. So far at least, that's not obvious from the Shanghai Futures Exchange tin contract. The seasonal build in exchange stocks has totalled a relatively mild 1,039 tonnes since the start of January and the front part of the tin curve is in backwardation, implying no immediate surplus. Moreover, Chinese production is likely to remain constrained by raw material shortages, which were an underlying motivation for the coordinated production cuts announced in September. The country's dependence on imports of tin concentrates from Myanmar has become problematic with flows slowing as easily-accessible reserves dry up. Imports from Myanmar have fallen over each of the last three years, last year by 20%. They may now have stopped altogether as borders are quarantined. China's own logistic chains are bottle-necked. The inflow of concentrates to smelters in Gejiu province "is completely blocked," the ITA said, adding that "smelters without integrated mines are working through already low concentrate stocks." Indonesia is already the world's largest exporter of refined tin, but previous attempts to flex market muscle have foundered on the lack of cohesion in a fractured producer landscape. PT Timah's production surge last year marked a major victory in a long-running political battle with the independent smelters clustered on the tin-rich islands of Bangka and Belitung. The Indonesian authorities in late 2018 suspended PT Surveyor Indonesia, which was checking independent smelters' exports were legally sourced. With official export channels closed, the smelters stopped operating, freeing up more raw material for Timah, which used a different pre-export survey company. Timah's ambitions are undiminished. The company has just started construction on a new 40,000 tonne-per-year smelting plant as it looks to cement its position as top global producer. In its newly dominant position Timah theoretically has much greater market clout. "We cannot control global prices but we can control and maintain our export volume," the company's corporate secretary Abdullah Umar Baswedan told the Jakarta Post. It started reducing sales in the third quarter of last year, when the tin price slumped to a three-year low of $15,565 per tonne. Timah "is committed to gradually cut its export sales volumes" in response to global market dynamics, the company said in its Q3 2019 financial report. Total Indonesian exports, which by definition are now almost exclusively shipments made by Timah, fell by 12% to 67,700 tonnes last year, the lowest total since 2016. Unfortunately for tin producers everywhere that hasn't stopped the price from falling back to margin distress levels. And with demand likely to take a severe short-term hit, producers are going to have to continue demonstrating market discipline. One in particular. Editing by Kirsten Donovan