South African miningStrike from belowTHESE are trying times for South Africa's mining companies. Two years ago a weak currency and high world prices boosted gold and other mineral exporters. No longer. For months firms have given warning that higher costs, due to the now strong rand, are hitting profits. This week the country's fourth-largest goldmining firm, Durban Roodepoort Deep, said it might have to close two mines and cut perhaps 13,000 jobs. The firm may be scaremongering as it haggles with the National Union of Mineworkers over wages. The union wants pay rises of 20%, more than twice the rate of inflation. Bosses profited when the rand was weak but workers saw no gain, it says. Miners earn a minimum of 2,000 rand ($265) a month, and lost out as inflation surged last year. Durban Roodepoort Deep is offering only 2-4%, saying that higher wage rises will make its operations uneconomic. This week two rival firms offered to take the two mines off its hands, but they were quickly rebuffed. The rest of the mining industry is also in talks, the toughest for many years. The last general strike, in 1987, came under the apartheid government. The protests had political as well as economic goals. The political heat is absent now, though miners do want better housing, welfare and medical help. This week the talks broke down and the union was set to serve legal notice that at least three goldmining companies, AngloGold, Harmony and Gold Fields, face a strike. Two coal producers, Ingwe and Kuyasa, could also be affected. Up to 160,000 workers may refuse to work unless wage offers are raised to 10% or more. The Congress of South African Trade Unions, representing 1.7m workers, said it would support the strike too. The gold price has edged up as traders fret that production will be hit.The strike could be averted in last-minute talks. But a union spokesman, Moferefere Lekorotsoana, said on July 23rd that "I expect the strike is going to happen." Either way, other problems will persist. Several firms are expected to show sharp falls in profits when they announce quarterly results shortly. The mining houses are also waiting to hear details of the government's new mining royalties bill, under which the state will claim an extra 2-8% of revenues on various minerals. Mining companies want royalties charged on profits instead, and complain that the proposed rates are too high. The bill is supposed to go before parliament in August, after the treasury has considered it: more rows and warnings of doom and gloom are expected. The happy days of two years ago seem far off now.