South African miningThe diggers are restlessFROM the recent huffing and puffing by South African mining companies, you might think the sky was falling in. This month a parliamentary committee heard final statements on a long-awaited minerals bill that could become law within a few months. Top honchos from the mining industry, which turns over 700 billion rand ($68 billion) a year, have rushed to denounce the legislation. Jonathan Oppenheimer of De Beers, a diamond company, said it could scare investors, and gave warning that some eight billion rand of planned spending by his company might be cancelled as a result. Bobby Godsell, boss of AngloGold, says the industry needs urgent protection against bad laws.Mines matter greatly to South Africa. Gold alone accounts for about a tenth of all exports (though that is down from half two decades ago). Platinum accounts for even more. The country has the world's single largest deposits of gold, platinum, chrome, vanadium and manganese, as well as large lumps of diamonds and other mineral goodies. So the government would be foolish to put the mining industry at risk. Is it about to do just that?The bill certainly proposes some radical changes: for example, mining rights will be taken from private hands and given to the state, which will then grant licences and collect royalties. Although state ownership of rights is common in other mining countries, such as Canada, Australia, Chile and Brazil, South Africa's shift has been branded expropriation by lawyers acting for the big mining companies. They worry that existing mining rights will not be guaranteed under a new regime. Although the government says its plan to turn existing rights into new 30-year licences is a formality, the companies wonder what will happen when those expire. They will be expected to reapply for their licences under conditions that are not yet clear.The government argues that it is trying to create a more competitive industry by opening the way for smaller, black-owned firms to be involved alongside such giants as Anglo American, AngloGold's parent. The country's mining industry has always been white-run; for a long time it was also very profitable, because apartheid laws made it easy to keep black wages low.Khanyo Gqulu, spokesman for the minerals and energy ministry, says the bill is about "democratising" the industry. To win new licences, companies may have to show that they have black-owned partners and a comprehensive environmental plan. To keep licences, they will have to comply with a use-it-or-lose-it system designed to prevent mineral-rights hoarding. That may give more space to foreign and small companies to start digging. South Africa's Mining Development Association, which represents smaller and black-owned mining companies, also wants a variety of social-development conditions to be attached to licences. These could include quotas for black workers and a minimum percentage of black-owned shares in bidding companies.The big mining groups concede that the latest version of the bill is better than previous ones. They agree that black ownership should be encouraged, and have come to accept that state licensing is inevitable. But they also think that parts of the bill are unworkable. The devil is in its detail, or lack of it: the mining minister will have plenty of discretion in awarding licences, and conditions relating to social development have yet to be defined. The bill may even be unconstitutional, if the withdrawal of old rights can be shown to amount to expropriation. It may also contravene a 1994 law guaranteeing British investment against expropriation.If the bill goes ahead in its current form, investors in a variety of industries might fear that their commercial rights are not safe. Angloplat, the world's largest platinum producer, this month announced a 20 billion rand expansion in South Africa. But others are said to be holding back until the bill's implications become clearer. The government should be careful not to contradict its wish for an open, competitive economy, however much small and black-owned companies might benefit. 