South Africa’s trade unionsCould the deal be contagiousTHE owners of Lonmin, a big platinum company, must be heaving heavy sighs of relief. On September 18th workers at its mine at Marikana in South Africa signed a deal that ended a six-week wildcat strike that has left 45 people dead. Miners will get a pay bump of between 11% and 22%, along with a one-off bonus of 2,000 rand ($240). Rock-drill operators, who have been at the centre of the industrial action, will get just over 11,000 rand a month. Not quite the 12,500 they were demanding, but, it appears, close enough.The recent strikes at platinum and gold mines have cost South Africa 4.5 billion rand in lost production, said Jacob Zuma, the country's president and leader of the ruling African National Congress (ANC). Along with the deal ending the strike, Lonmin said it would close a shaft at Marikana and lay off 1,200 contract workers.Fears of contagion persist. Strikes are not uncommon in South Africa but the violence at Marikana has rattled many in the industry. Looking at Lonmin, other miners may conclude that militancy is the best way to squeeze more money out of their employers. In recent weeks workers at mines owned by Anglo-American, Gold Fields and Gold One have walked out. A day after the Lonmin deal was signed police fired rubber bullets and tear-gas at protesters near an Anglo-American mine where operations had been temporarily suspended because of demonstrations.The strike at Marikana may be over but it has left South Africa's leaders, especially its trade unions, looking feeble. A committee appointed by miners, along with the South African Council of Churches and other civic leaders, brokered the deal at Lonmin, not the government or the unions. And the strike there was not only about pay; it was also a protest against the inadequacies of the miners' official union.Across South Africa, unemployment remains stubbornly high. At least a quarter of South Africans are jobless, probably more. A growing number work in the informal sector, where the unions wield little clout. As the Congress of South African Trade Unions meets this week for its national conference, the feeling is growing that it and the ANC are more concerned with internal squabbles and party politics than addressing South Africa's many pressing problems.