South African miningAll that's gold does not glitterLAST year should have been a great year for gold-mining companies. And for some it was: in dollars, gold was fetching about $410 an ounce a year ago, way above the $250-or-so low of February 2001. It soared briefly above $450 as November ended, and even now, after a rapid slide, is still about $425. Fine if your costs are in dollars. But what if they are in rand? That was a different (and sorry) tale for any gold-miner in high-cost South Africa. After a dim 2003, the gold price leapt to just over 3,000 rand an ounce in mid-January 2004. But as the rand soared--from about seven to the dollar in January to little above six in July--gold slid to about 2,500 rand an ounce, about where it is today. That is no problem for a global giant like Newmont, which has no South African mines. No huge one either for giant AngloGold Ashanti (born of a merger last April), based in Johannesburg but with mines worldwide. But it is awkward for South African firms mining little or no gold elsewhere to offset their woes at home--and for one miner in particular: Harmony.Last October, Harmony launched an impudent, all-share bid for its grander compatriot Gold Fields, and the bid battle is still limping expensively along. The declared logic of the deal was to create the biggest gold producer in the world, and a national champion for South Africa. But the reality was simpler. Harmony had lost money for five quarters on the trot; Gold Fields, overall, makes money. Harmony mines little outside its home country; Gold Fields mines quite a lot. And South Africa's real trouble is not just that the rand is strong, but that its gold is costly to extract.South Africa's mines typically are deep; two miles or so, some of them. Easily accessible ore near the surface was hauled away decades, even a century, ago. Working deep underground costs far more than the open-pit mining common elsewhere, and South Africa's low wages do not make up for that, even as against first-world mining. Its mineworkers' union is strong, and recent pay rises have been generous.In the third quarter of 2004, Newmont was mining gold in Indonesia at a cash cost of about $115 an ounce; in Peru, $140; in Uzbekistan and Turkey, $170; in New Zealand, $205; in Australia, at varying sums from $225 to $310; and in Nevada, $290. Newmont expects $200 at a big mine due to open in 2006 in Ghana. These figures of course reflect varying currencies, wage levels and ore quality as well as geology. But few are near AngloGold Ashanti's $350 or so in South Africa over the same period (but at today's dollar/rand rate and including some costs that the firm omits); let alone (at the same rate), the $385 of Gold Fields there, or Harmony's $410. Non-cash operating costs, mainly depreciation, add $30-60 to all these figures.AngloGold Ashanti this week reported a 2% quarterly cut in rand costs. Gold Fields and Harmony, reporting next week, may have similar news. Even so, unless gold rises, and/or the rand slides significantly, some South African mines clearly face trouble. Harmony's bid for Gold Fields has justifiably made headlines, but for the industry it is really a sideshow. 