Steel producersSmeltdownREFLECTING how truly dire conditions have become for American steel producers, on October 15th the second-largest, Bethlehem Steel, made the most encouraging announcement about its future viability in years--by declaring bankruptcy. The move immediately allowed Bethlehem to receive $450m in new bank financing, ensuring its short-term survival. In the weeks to come, Bethlehem will attempt to renegotiate an agreement covering work rules for its 13,000 employees and, equally important, health-care obligations for 74,000 retirees. If the company can thrash out a deal, it will try to persuade the federal government to provide help on medical costs, tax treatment of losses and more protection against imports.Bethlehem is now likely to play a role in the consolidation of an industry that is, by any definition, in crisis. Some 20 American steel companies have fallen into bankruptcy since the autumn of 1998, according to Crossroads, a research firm. This year alone, six have gone bust. More announcements seem only a matter of time. Of the 14 steel companies followed by Standard & Poor's, a credit-rating agency, only one, Nucor, is indisputably healthy, and its profits will fall by at least half this year. The bonds of 11 of the 14 are rated as junk; ten have negative outlooks on their ratings and one, Weirton Steel, hovers perilously close to default. "Bethlehem is not alone in its struggles," observes Robert Miller, a turnaround specialist who was brought in as chief executive on September 24th, after the company's shares had become, in effect, worthless.The immediate cause of Bethlehem's filing for Chapter 11 was a $152m loss for the third quarter, with no sign of improved prospects. By declaring bankruptcy, Bethlehem will be able to eliminate a crippling layer of costs and emerge a profitable company, says Michelle Galanter Applebaum, an analyst at Salomon Smith Barney, a securities firm. But that may just shift pressure to other producers, because demand for steel is falling along with prices, even as global production continues to rise.In response to this wretched environment, American steel producers have, as usual, launched bitter diatribes against supposedly dumped steel imports, complaining that these are subsidised either directly, or indirectly because workers in other countries receive health care and pensions from the state. Bethlehem's single largest capital expenditure in recent years has been to bolster an underfunded pension scheme. American producers have also had to face increasingly tough environmental rules. In some cases these could be met by costly modifications. In others, old plants had to be closed--such as Bethlehem's Baltimore mill, which produced coke, the baked coal used to make iron into steel, along with vast clouds of ash and acrid green smoke.The bankruptcy of Bethlehem, which was founded in 1904, reflects the sad fall of a company that played a big part in America's industrialisation. Bethlehem's mills produced the skeleton framework for the longest bridges and highest skyscrapers. Investors who scooped up stock at $2 a share in the Depression could sell at $60 during the 1950s. The strongest evidence of the company's formidable strength, however, may have been how long it has taken to fall apart.Bethlehem's brush with bankruptcy will give it another chance, but little more than that. The market is shrinking, and American mills remain saddled with higher production costs than competitors elsewhere (see chart). For Bethlehem to flourish once again, others will have to disappear instead.