Steel tradeJust say NoTopfotoGEORGE BUSH faces a stark test of his claim to be a free-trade president. Before March 6th, he must decide whether to put tariffs on foreign steel to help the embattled domestic industry. American law allows him to impose protection for industries that have suffered injury from imports. American trade arbiters have duly found such injury in steel, and the steel lobby is looking for tariffs as big as 40%.  That would be disastrous. It would wreck relations with trading partners round the world, from Kazakhstan to South Korea. The transatlantic trade relationship that was so crucial to the launch of the Doha trade round would be badly damaged. A fight at the World Trade Organisation over the legality of American tariffs would be inevitable. Other disputes would surely escalate, from America's unlawful tax subsidies for exporters to Europe's unwillingness to admit genetically modified foods. At the least, progress on the Doha round would stall. At worst, a full-blown trade war could break out. If all that is not enough, tariffs on steel would also harm the American economy, at a time when its nascent recovery is particularly fragile. America consumes more steel than it produces; consumers would suffer far more from a tariff than producers would benefit.  At the cost of destroying jobs elsewhere, tariffs would save some jobs in steel--but only temporarily. Tariffs would do nothing to solve the industry's structural problems. American steel is really two industries: a group of low-cost, non-unionised mini-mills and an array of unionised, capital- and labour-intensive integrated steel producers. Mini-mills have been doing well: their share of the market has quintupled over the past 25 years. But the integrated dinosaurs, hobbled by high production costs, are horribly uncompetitive and have remained so despite (or more likely because of) a long history of protection. The only rational long-term solution is to allow most of them to go bankrupt. Unfortunately, politics dictates otherwise. The steel lobby is enormously powerful. Mr Bush may even owe his job to West Virginia's steel workers. Unhappy at Bill Clinton's unwillingness to help them, these traditional Democratic stalwarts voted Republican in 2000. In any case, Mr Bush initiated the trade-arbitration process that has led to the tariff recommendation, so he can hardly do nothing in response.  Yet, although Mr Bush cannot ignore big steel, he need not lapse into protection. Steel workers, as opposed to steel companies, can be helped in ways that do not interfere with free trade. Pension benefits are a particular problem in the industry and would be at risk if firms closed, but the government's Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation helps workers with pension plans when their employers go bust, even if the result is less generous than the recklessly extravagant promises the steel makers made. Trade adjustment assistance can help to retrain workers who lose their jobs.  There are equally creative solutions for other steel problems. Tax credits or subsidies could make health insurance affordable for laid-off workers who are not eligible for Medicare. Communities that depend on a single steel mill could get special help. Sticking to free-trade principles may mean losing some steel companies, but it need not mean abandoning their workers. It just requires the political spine to stop traditional--and always unsuccessful--protection and focus help instead on employees, not their employers. 