SteelRust never sleepsAN AILING steel industry, a case of unfair trade before America's International Trade Commission and a president mulling sanctions. No, this is not 2002, but 1976, when Gerald Ford was in the White House and America's sickly steel companies were clamouring for import protection to help them back on their feet. Twenty-six years later, the same steel makers are still flat on their backs. The quotas, tariffs, subsidies and the like (worth well over $30 billion, according to some estimates) that America's politicians have lavished on steel companies in the interim have clearly taught policymakers nothing. Amid widespread groans, on March 5th President George Bush slapped tariffs, ranging from 8% to 30%, on an assortment of imported steel products for three years--a period of time, ventured Mr Bush's trade representative, Robert Zoellick, "that will give the US steel industry the opportunity to get back on its feet."The Europeans, in particular, are furious. More than a third of their $4 billion-worth of steel exports to America will be hit by a 30% tariff, and Europe's market may now be flooded with diverted steel. Some exporters, such as Brazil and Russia, in effect got more lenient treatment, making the European Union madder still. Pascal Lamy, the EU's top trade man, promised a swift complaint at the World Trade Organisation (WTO). Japan, another big producer, says it may join the Europeans. Consumer groups in America are in despair, as are most economists.The EU has promised to safeguard its own markets from floods of foreign steel, and will seek compensation from America, as WTO rules allow. And although Mr Lamy publicly refuses to link the two cases, the EU may well act tougher in another fight about tax breaks for American exporters (where the WTO has declared America at fault). At best, the close transatlantic trade relationship has suffered a setback. At worst, Mr Bush has fired the first shot in a full-blown trade war.Once again, America's steel industry has shown its extraordinary political clout. Against its 160,000 workers, Mr Bush had to weigh the interests of American consumers, foreign producers and, if his shrillest critics were to be believed, the future of free trade itself. And yet, in the end, the 30,000 steelworkers bussed into Washington for a last-minute "countdown to justice" rally had the final say. Leo Gerard, the president of the United Steel Workers of America, the union that organised the rally, said the tariffs offered the industry a "chance for survival".In the short term, he is right. Having fallen to below $200 late last year, the price of a tonne of hot-rolled steel has suddenly shot above $300, partly in anticipation of Mr Bush's three-year tariffs. That will help the 15 American steel makers operating under the protection of the bankruptcy courts (increased to 16 this week by the inclusion of Indiana-based National Steel). It will do nothing, however, to help restore the industry's overall long-term health.Steel-company bosses say they need trade protection to upgrade their mills. But it costs several billion dollars to build a new "integrated" steel works, which makes the metal from iron ore. The capital markets, meanwhile, have been shut to the integrated producers, and with good reason: other companies can make steel more cheaply. Although the unions thunder on about unfair imports, most of these low-cost rivals are to be found at home.Take, for instance, the American operations of foreign steel makers, like those of South Korea's Posco, which is left wondering whether the tariffs will apply to the steel that it sends to its American joint venture for finishing off. Then there is LTV, an integrated steel maker that is about to emerge from bankrutpcy for the second time. Last month, LTV agreed to sell itself to W.L. Ross, a restructuring specialist. The deal is not yet done, as W.L. Ross must first negotiate a new contract with the union. But LTV's costs are sure to be lower than most other integrated producers'. W.L. Ross will be relieved of LTV's "legacy costs"--the ruinous health-care and pension benefits that steel-industry bosses granted workers in the 1980s and 1990s in exchange for wage cuts. The effects of a big, new low-cost producer, says Wayne Atwell of Morgan Stanley, are bound to "ricochet through the industry", repeating a cycle that he has observed many times.An even lower-cost group of domestic producers are the mini-mill operators, such as Nucor, which make steel from scrap metal instead of iron ore. On average, according to World Steel Dynamics, a consultancy, the mini-mills use less than one-third of the labour that the integrated mills need to make a tonne of sheet steel. That makes them competitive with the Brazilians and South Koreans (see chart), while the integrated firms have the highest costs in the world.The steel lobby claims foreign competition is killing the industry, but that is simply not true: American steel-making capacity is no lower now than it was when President Ford was contemplating sanctions. The headline figure, however, masks big changes in fortunes since 1976. The unionised, integrated producers have lost about half of their market share. The non-union mini-mills have grown fivefold, and now claim nearly half the market.This process is sure to continue. On top of their lower labour costs, the mini-mills' electric-arc furnaces are much cheaper to build than iron-ore blast furnaces. Best of all, the mini-mills have a natural hedge against a downturn in steel prices, because the price of scrap steel, their input, rises and falls with their finished product. Apart from US Steel and AK Steel, the two biggest producers, every integrated steel maker that is not already in the bankruptcy courts is likely to end up there, with or without trade barriers. The market thinks Nucor, on the other hand, is worth more than all the integrated producers combined.That does not mean that the old-line firms can do nothing. US Steel's recent proposal to merge with several bankrupt rivals hinged on Mr Bush picking up their legacy costs, which he has refused to do. But mergers are still possible if bankruptcy courts agree to scrap these obligations, as they did with LTV.Also, companies could try to renegotiate their labour contracts with the steel union. As well as guaranteeing what is still a good hourly wage, these agreements stifle innovation (through detailed work rules) and offer health-care benefits that are far more generous than those which the steel firms' white-collar workers get.The braver bosses could even try making different steels, or the same steels differently. AK Steel, one of the better integrated producers, has prospered under both approaches, innovating to reduce maintenance expenses and switching production to higher-margin steels. Last year, say company officials, its four biggest integrated rivals lost, on average, $57 per tonne of steel made. AK Steel, on the other hand, made operating profits of $21 per tonne.Yet the suspicion is that such gambles lie beyond the talents of most steel managers, who have grown soft under the soothing influence of trade barriers and subsidies. LTV, for one, failed miserably to turn itself into a zippy mini-mill producer.Now that steelworkers have won most of what they were demanding from Mr Bush, steel bosses are unlikely suddenly to find the strength to take on the union. Most depressing of all, even the mini-mill operators, led by Nucor, lobbied hard for trade barriers. If the modern, competitive producers succumb to protection and subsidies as well, American steel's future may look all too similar to its inglorious past. 