SteelStrong, but squeezedFOR the world's steelmakers, 2004 was a miraculous year of rising demand and soaring prices. They expect more of the same in 2005, and short of a sudden world (or merely Chinese) slowdown, they may get it. But can they repeat last year's explosive profit growth? Maybe not. The steelmaker is pig in the middle between builders and car firms on one side, and miners of coal, iron ore and some subsidiary metals on the other (the coal, mostly in the form of coke, is fed into the blast furnaces whose iron goes into about two-thirds of world steel). The price of all these raw materials rose fast, in dollar terms--some in any terms--in 2004. They are likely to continue that way in 2005. Last month, Nippon Steel agreed new prices for coking coal with BHP Billiton, whose Australian mines meet some 30% of internationally traded demand. This week POSCO, from South Korea, made similar deals with BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto, number two in the trade. The two huge Asian steelmakers have been paying around $55 per tonne. From April, they will pay about $125. That $70 rise adds about $40 to the cost of making a tonne of steel. A benchmark product, hot-rolled coil, sells for $600-650. With iron ore, price is only one trouble. The biggest supplier is Brazil's CVRD, followed by Rio Tinto and BHP Billiton. The two latter companies are now talking money with their Japanese customers. These annual talks in practice set the tone for prices worldwide. The last round led to a 19% rise, in dollar terms. This time the haggling could well see ore prices rise--also from next April--by 20-30%. Ore is cheap even now: its iron content is worth only $35-40 a tonne at the port. But an extra $10 a tonne will still cost such giants as Nippon Steel or POSCO $300m a year.The steelmakers' real worry recently, however, has been getting the stuff. They have been doing their best to tie up long-term supplies. Last February, Luxembourg-based Arcelor, then the world's biggest steelmaker, signed a five-year deal with CVRD. Asian firms have gone further. In April, Baosteel, China's number one, made a ten-year deal with Rio Tinto. A raft of firms later made deals of similar length with CVRD: Shougang of China, POSCO, Japan's JFE Steel and Sumitomo Metals, and more. The daddy of these deals came in March, between four more Chinese firms and BHP Billiton for 25 years. Increasingly the steelmakers are also ready to back their supply contracts with capital investment. Baosteel, for instance, has a 46% interest in a new Rio Tinto mine opened last April. JFE Steel last August agreed to take a 20% stake in a venture led by BHP Billiton to expand a mine that meets over one-fifth of the Japanese firm's ore needs. POSCO last month bought into coal mines in Canada and Australia.The best news for the steelmakers is the miners' readiness to expand. The big three of iron ore, which together dug some 400m tonnes in 2003, could be digging 600m by 2008. Coking-coal output too is rising fast, notably in China. Can the steelmakers pass cost increases on? They won big price rises last year and are trying for more. But demand from China, though still rising, is doing so a lot less quickly than before, and its own steel output is expected to grow by 10-15% this year; China in November was a net exporter of steel. Smaller expansions are planned elsewhere, notably in Brazil and India. And much depends on the dollar (and, still pegged to it, China's yuan): dollar shifts are not simply cancelled out, as one might think, for a steel firm midway between an Australian mine and a Japanese car-builder. And the global economy? All steelmakers were gung-ho a year ago. Some today are cautious.