SteelArcelor wobblesAPSparks fly in the steel businessFOR the first time since Mittal Steel launched a hostile bid for Arcelor in January, the management of Europe's biggest steelmaker is clearly nervous. The Luxembourg-based company is coming out with ambiguous statements. It is refusing a demand by almost one-third of its investors to have a straightforward vote on a critical decision for the company's future. And it is bombarding investors and analysts with ever bigger documents to try and explain its strategy.At a five-hour board meeting on June 11th, Arcelor's bosses formally rejected Mittal's EUR25.8 billion ($32.3 billion) takeover bid and reiterated their determination to merge with Russia's Severstal. But at the same time they mandated themselves to meet with Mittal as soon as possible. Worried about the outcome of an orthodox vote on the planned Severstal merger, the board turned down a request for a majority ballot of those who vote at a shareholder meeting on June 30th. Yet it included a resolution on whether to hold such a vote (a legal requirement in many countries, though not in Luxembourg) into the agenda for the meeting. The board justified its decisions with some odd arguments. According to Guy Dolle, the chief executive of Arcelor, the alliance with Severstal is of such "importance" that it can be stopped only if at least 50% of the entire shareholder base vote against it. Yet he knows full well that on average only about a third of shareholders turn up at meetings. An even clearer sign of his attitude to shareholders is Mr Dolle's proposal to have a proper majority vote on Severstal at an extraordinary shareholder meeting in late August--long after he is hoping to have concluded the deal with the Russians.The only effective way for Arcelor shareholders to protest the proposed merger with Severstal is to sell their shares to Mittal by July 5th, when its tender offer expires. Most will probably wait for the outcome of the shareholder meeting on June 30th before deciding whether to sell. If Mittal manages to buy more than 50% of Arcelor shares by the time the tender offer expires, the Severstal deal will fall through. With a EUR140m "break-up fee" in his pocket, Alexei Mordashov, boss of Severstal, would be crying all the way to the bank. Arcelor's management seems to sense that the likelihood of investors defecting is increasing. On June 12th the company sent out a 38-page document to highlight the advantages of its proposed marriage with the Russians. It is luring investors with cash through the proposed buy-back of 150m shares for EUR44 each, a generous price. (Arcelor shares are trading at around EUR33.) It is praising the "unique combination" of Arcelor's operations in Brazil and Severstal's factories in Russia, which would create the only steel group in the world with production in the two regions, and with the lowest costs. And with Severstal's earnings per tonne for 2005, the profitability of the combined group would be nearly 30% higher than Mittal's, which is more reliant on spot contracts and lower-quality steel.Lakshmi Mittal, the Indian boss of Mittal, is fighting back with his own set of statistics. On June 13th he said he expected his company's earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation, a measure of profitability, to reach $9.9 billion in 2008, an increase by over 70% compared with 2005. He is also planning to invest $3.4 billion in his business between now and 2008. Mr Mittal justifies his predictions with the rosy outlook for the steel industry, which he thinks is supported by strong global growth, especially from developing markets. The proposed Severstal merger is a "reverse takeover by a regional operator," according to Mr Mittal.Last week antitrust lawyers filed two sets of documents to get the merger approved by the European Commission in Brussels. Usually, the company that will be in charge when the deal is complete notifies the commission, but Arcelor and Severstal do not seem to agree on this central question. Under the terms of the proposed transaction Arcelor will get a 90% stake in Severstal while Mr Mordashov will own 38% of Arcelor. As the confusion over the nature of the Severstal deal mounts, members of the political establishment in all countries involved in the deal--Arcelor is the offspring of a merger of steelmakers in France, Spain, and Luxembourg--are starting to distance themselves from it. Whereas many politicians initially backed Mr Dolle in his campaign against Mr Mittal, they are now looking more neutral. Analysts and investors are still taking sides, however. "I think Mittal will succeed," says Richard Brakenhoff, an analyst at Rabobank in Amsterdam, who thinks that Mr Mittal's bid is much the more attractive. Increasingly, those Arcelor investors who will speak in public about the proposed deals, seem to agree. 