SteelAge of giantsLAKSHMI MITTAL and Guy Dolle, the bosses of Mittal Steel and Arcelor--the world's two biggest steel firms--have long agreed on one thing: the global steel industry will soon come to be dominated by a handful of giant companies. The problem is that Mr Dolle assumed that Arcelor would be one of those giants. Now Mittal Steel has launched an audacious and hostile bid to swallow its largest rival, and Mr Dolle is fighting like fury to preserve his firm's independence.The background to the takeover battle is a long-term increase in demand, which means that steel--once regarded as a sick industry, nursed along by governments for a mixture of social and strategic reasons--is once again a profitable business. Mr Mittal has built his company by consolidating a notoriously fragmented industry. Over the past two decades, he has been busy gobbling up steel assets everywhere from Mexico to Algeria to Kazakhstan. That propelled Mittal Steel from obscurity to the top of the world steel league table. As Mr Mittal usually went after underperforming assets in privatisations, or arranged friendly takeovers, he was often applauded as a useful outsider invigorating a decaying industry. Alas, those good-natured days are over. Mr Mittal's hostile $23 billion takeover bid for Arcelor has been greeted with hostility in much of Europe (see article). Mr Dolle is fighting with any weapon that comes to hand. He has raised questions about Mittal's business model, its safety record and its management. And although insisting that the deal will be decided by shareholders, not politicians, he has also taken care to portray Arcelor as central to Europe's economic health.The offer, a quarter in cash and three-quarters in Mittal shares, values Arcelor at about a quarter above its pre-bid share price (which, as Mr Mittal likes to point out, was already around its record high). The combined firm would command a 10% share of the global market--more than three times that of its nearest rivals. Arcelor is strongest in western Europe and high-value steel products, while Mittal is strongest outside the EU and in lower grades of steel. Neither is big in China, where production shot up a staggering 77m tonnes last year, but Mr Mittal reckons "with the combined force, we will be able to accelerate our presence in Asia."Whether the deal succeeds or not may take months to become clear. Arcelor's board immediately rejected the offer. And Mr Dolle has had some success in stoking the political reaction in Europe. But Mr Mittal is confident. After a meeting with French officials, he insisted that "they have not shut the door, in fact they are looking to open a window." He roundly rejected the idea that his firm lacks Arcelor's "European" values: "We are European," he insists, pointing to Mittal Steel's London headquarters and Rotterdam tax registration. He has offered to move the firm's head office to Luxembourg. He also vows that there will be no job losses at Arcelor "as a result of this merger". He thinks the deal can be finalised by June.Arcelor may try some sort of "poison pill" to ward off Mittal. One option is a tie-up with another big steel firm (Mr Dolle was due to meet the boss of Japan's Nippon Steel this week), to ward off this unwelcome advance. If Arcelor tries some such manoeuvre, Mr Mittal might sweeten his offer in weeks to come. Mr Dolle is also trying to make corporate governance an issue, denouncing his rival's plans to retain family control over the combined firm. This looks to be the biggest chink in Mr Mittal's armour. When pressed about the wisdom of installing his 30-year-old son as president and chief financial officer, the steelman appeared to jib. His son Aditya "earned" his position, Mr Mittal insisted, and is "a genius". Perhaps. But the appearance of nepotism will not help his cause. Whatever happens with this particular deal, the trend towards global consolidation now seems unstoppable. Roger Agnelli, boss of CVRD, a Brazilian firm that is the world's biggest supplier of iron ore, declares that steel will now become a "game of giants". "Everybody is now in play," says Dick McLaughlin of Hatch, an industry consultancy. U.S. Steel, POSCO of South Korea, Germany's ThyssenKrupp and a dozen firms behind them on the league table, which would previously not have been targets, may now be vulnerable. The firms likely to join Mittal Steel as global consolidators will come, argues Mr McLaughlin, from Russia, Brazil and possibly even China. China's rise as a steel superpower and its potential to swamp global markets has certainly helped speed consolidation. At the end of last year, for example, Arcelor and ThyssenKrupp were locked in a heated race to buy Canada's Dofasco. In the end Arcelor won--but Mr Mittal has promised to yield the prize to Thyssen if his takeover prevails. That bidding war points to another possible motivation for Mittal Steel's new takeover bid, aside from a genuine desire to create a global steel powerhouse: a design to get rid of his chief rival predator. After defeating Arcelor in a recent auction for Ukrainian steel assets, Mr Mittal suggested that the bidding contest had sent the final price up by some $2 billion. Mr Mittal also hopes that a new, larger group may be able to set a lead for the rest of the industry--sending signals about when to moderate production, and so smooth the peaks and troughs in demand that have bedevilled the steel business.In the end, regardless of whether Mittal or Arcelor wins, the coming battle royal is reason for optimism about steel. This industry, once considered a ward of the state, is now increasingly subject to market forces. So does that mean steel is no longer special or strategic? Mr Mittal says: "I see steel as a normal business." So far that has been a great formula for success.