Steel industryA tricky businessGIVEN President George Bush's oft-stated free-trade credentials, it is ironic that his first big action on the trade front should be grossly protectionist. On June 22nd, at Mr Bush's direction, Bob Zoellick, America's trade representative, invoked section 201 of the 1974 trade act and asked the independent International Trade Commission to examine whether the American steel industry has suffered serious injury from imports. Given the intensity of lobbying by steel companies and trade unions, it will be no surprise if America imposes quotas and higher tariffs on steel imports when the investigation ends in a few months' time.There is no doubt that America's steel industry is in trouble. Prices are at their lowest for 20 years and they have fallen sharply this year. That has put more strain on companies that were already struggling. US Steel, the longtime industry leader, will lose money this year, while Bethlehem Steel, for decades America's number two, will record a loss for the third year running. Even Nucor, a mini-mill upstart founded in the 1960s and by some measures now America's biggest producer, is fighting to remain profitable.The industry's woes have produced alarming statistics. No fewer than 18 American steel firms have filed for bankruptcy in the past three-and-a-half years, including LTV, the third-biggest. Northwestern Steel recently shut its furnaces and ceased business. Further failures are expected this year. Job losses in the industry, which have averaged 5,000 a year since 1990, are accelerating.The Bush administration maintains that imports are largely to blame. Mr Zoellick cited a "50-year legacy of foreign government intervention in the market and direct financial support of their steel industries" as a principal cause of the problem. As well as seeking to curb imports, Mr Bush has called for multilateral talks with other steel-producing countries to eliminate excess capacity and reduce subsidies. Some members of his team would like a global pact similar to the one introduced for aluminium in 1994. Observers say the creation of such a cartel is unlikely, given the large number of producing countries that would have to agree.As with any international trade row, the underlying picture is more complex than the parties' rhetoric suggests. It is true that imports into America have increased sharply in recent years and now account for around 30% of the market. In the first half of the 1990s they averaged 21m metric tonnes a year, before jumping to 41.5m tonnes in 1998. In 1999, some 35.7m tonnes entered America, and last year 38m came in, mostly from its NAFTA trading partners and from Europe.But imports have recently been falling almost as fast as they once increased. According to Peter Dupont, an analyst with Commerzbank, imports from January to April were down by 30% from the previous year. Assuming that domestic demand does not collapse completely as the economy slows, Mr Dupont reckons America needs to import at least 20m tonnes to offset constraints in its own production capacity. That could be close to the level that might be acceptable to Mr Bush.The steel industry's problems are neither new nor confined to America, however. During the 1990s, productivity in Europe, America and Japan rose by 50% to an output of almost 600 tonnes per man-year. Over the same period, even though world GDP rose by nearly 40%, overall production scarcely increased. Big job losses, and accompanying political and trade tensions, were inevitable. Companies also had to cope with persistent over-capacity. For 30 years capacity has exceeded production by around 20%. That has caused long-term downward pressure on prices and guaranteed that the industry always plunges into operating losses whenever economic conditions deteriorate.If the laws of economics were allowed to work, weak producers would long ago have disappeared, and the reduction in capacity would leave the survivors in better shape. But steel is not a normal market. Gary Hufbauer and Ben Goodrich of the Institute for International Economics, a Washington think-tank, point out in a forthcoming policy brief that big market distortions have made the shedding of excess capacity a painfully slow affair. America is as bad as anywhere in allowing subsidies and guarantees to distort the market.In Europe, governments responded to market pressures by privatising their steel companies, mostly in the early 1990s. But this introduced a further form of subsidy because the companies, many of which had been bankrolled by taxpayers for decades, were given clean balance sheets in order to make them financially viable. The American steel industry points to this as an example of unfair market conditions, while the Europeans argue that American firms have been feeble at restructuring their operations to become more efficient.Neither side is on completely solid ground. Even with sound balance sheets, Europe's steel companies have struggled and have used mergers to survive. Corus, an Anglo-Dutch combination, is making horrible losses and closing plants all over the place. The European Commission has just begun to examine the effects of a proposed euro30 billion ($25.5 billion) merger between Usinor of France, Arbed of Luxembourg and Spain's Aceralia. That deal, if permitted, will create the world's biggest steel concern, able to produce 45m tonnes annually. But others may yet intervene. Riva, a private Italian steel group, recently prepared a spoiling bid for Usinor, only to balk at the last moment on price grounds.Despite the strength of the dollar, some American companies have not only restructured but are capable of competing with any global rival. AK Steel, for example, achieves world-class performance. A few huge conventional plants, such as those belonging to US Steel at Gary, Indiana and Bethlehem Steel at Burns Harbour, Indiana, are also efficient enough to be competitive even in dreadful market conditions. But there are also many old and creaking plants. John Johnson of CRU International, a consultancy, reckons the production costs of American mills are among the highest in the world, topped only by those in Japan. Further, expensive pension liabilities have played a big role in hindering mergers, and Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings often keep alive failing firms that would otherwise fold.If America introduces new quotas and tariffs, as seems likely, European companies will suffer direct and indirect pain. They currently export 5m tonnes of finished steel annually to America and stand to lose a lucrative portion of that--although no single producer is heavily exposed. Less directly, firms that are barred from the American market will look elsewhere to sell their steel, putting further pressure on prices.The prospect of increased American protectionism is slightly less worrying for Asian producers. The biggest and strongest companies, Posco in South Korea and China Steel in Taiwan, rely on America to take a modest 4% and 2% of output respectively. Anti-dumping measures already in force make America an unattractive market, a trend further reinforced by low prices. Young Woo Chang, an analyst with Goldman Sachs in Seoul, reckons that the mere $40 per tonne gap between Asian and American production costs makes exports to America uneconomic in most cases, once transport costs are factored in. This helps explain why, in Japan, South Korea and Taiwan, roughly 70% of production goes to domestic markets, with much of the rest being exported to Asian neighbours--in particular China, whose hunger for steel imports is the saviour of many an Asian producer. Given the longstanding and global nature of the steel industry's problems, why is Mr Bush acting now? Look no further than politics. America's steel lobby wields clout in Washington that is disproportionate for an industry employing only 200,000 people. It is adept at using America's trade armoury: some 46% of existing anti-dumping orders are on steel products, even though steel accounts for only 2% of imports. The steel firms also have powerful friends in Congress, who could derail Mr Bush's broader free-trade agenda or initiate even more draconian protectionist measures on steel.Mr Bush also needs to shore up unexpected political gains. He narrowly won the staunchly Democratic state of West Virginia in the 2000 election, in large part because he promised to help steel workers more than Al Gore or Bill Clinton, who refused to resort to section 201. More important, Mr Bush needed to buy off the steel lobby so as to further his goal of winning trade-promotion authority from Congress. This power, which would enable the administration to negotiate trade pacts such as a new WTO round without Congress amending their details, is understandably controversial. Without a large protectionist bone to chew on, the steel lobby would have sunk it. Unfortunately, there is no guarantee that even section 201 will satisfy the industry's demands for help. Quotas or not, the woes of the world's steel makers will continue.