SteelSamba schoolAPIF IT all goes ahead, the result will be a new steel centre of global proportions. Brazil's Companhia Vale do Rio Doce (CVRD) is the world's biggest producer of iron ore and pellets. But it is willing to go downstream to help its main business. Although in June the company agreed to sell its 28% stake in CST, Brazil's third-biggest steelmaker, it is now talking to foreign giants about partnerships to build three steel plants on Brazil's northern coast, with a combined output that could, in time, total a massive 24m tonnes a year.That figure is some two-thirds of Brazil's present steel output and over half of Germany's. No less important, for Brazilians, it would be a big step towards keeping the potential value-added of Brazil's vast natural resources inside the country--a dream of many developing nations, but one that few have achieved. Brazil's national development bank is already on side to shoulder a third of the possible $11.5-billion cost of this ambitious project.Will it all happen? CVRD's talks have gone furthest with Baosteel, a huge, partly privatised Chinese steelmaker. With China expected to import 45m of the 300m tonnes of steel it may use this year, Baosteel's interest is easily explained. But it has yet to decide whether to make steel in Brazil or just import ore to process at home.  Posco, from South Korea, the world's fourth-largest steelmaker, is in talks about a separate plant. But it has already announced plans for a steelworks in eastern India, in collaboration with the Anglo-Australian mining giant BHP Billiton. Posco too has big ambitions: expecting to produce 30m tonnes of steel this year, it dreams of 50m within ten years' time. This week, Posco revealed third-quarter profits doubled to $875m, but could it afford a big expansion in India and Brazil at the same time? Some Indians fear it may switch to Brazil. That would be embarrassing, however, not only for Posco but for the South Korean government, which has publicly backed the Indian project. Who could be CVRD's third partner? A port in northern Brazil would be well placed to serve either North America or Europe. But Brazil's steelmakers have had bitter experience of the American readiness to slap on tariffs, and they and their government might well prefer to look to Europe both for a market and a partner. Who? Luxembourg-based Arcelor, the world's biggest steel producer, is eager to switch manufacturing capacity from Europe to cheaper regions. CVRD has close links with Arcelor. But it was Arcelor that bought CVRD's shares in CST, giving it control of that company; and it has stakes in other Brazilian steelmakers. Would it want a new commitment there?Anglo-Dutch Corus is another possibility. In 2002 it announced plans for a takeover of CSN, CST's neck-and-neck rival. Within months the plan collapsed, as Corus itself almost did. Corus now has new bosses, but still no plant in Brazil. CSN has the attraction of owning a large ore mine. But a north-coast site would be usefully closer to Europe, Corus's main market, than is CSN's base near Rio de Janeiro.But there is a cautionary thought. World steel output was 8.5% higher in the first eight months of this year compared with the same period last year. China's output was up by 21%--adding an extra 30m tonnes in that country alone. But China's rate of growth may be slowing. Steelmakers know well what used to be called the "pig cycle"--about animals, not iron. When pork and bacon prices are high, lots of farmers rush into pigs, then lose their shirts as all their new output hits the market and prices crash. Steel is like that. 