SteelCorus of disapprovalHALLELUJAH! might have been an overreaction to the creation of Corus in 1999--but the marriage was welcomed warmly at the time. The newly combined Anglo-Dutch group became the world's third-biggest steel company, with a PS4 billion ($6 billion) market capitalisation and, it seemed, scope to prosper in an industry plagued by overcapacity. Today the group is worth only PS150m and is threatened with bankruptcy or possible break-up. What has gone wrong?It is now clear that Corus was an ill-conceived venture from the start. It failed to construct a workable model for its internal management, choosing instead to paper over the differences between the British and Dutch systems. Other, older, combined ventures, such as Royal Dutch/Shell and Unilever, have worked far better.Problems emerged last year when Corus pulled out of a Brazilian acquisition, amid arguments about strategic direction. But they came to a head on March 11th, when the supervisory board of Corus's Dutch arm blocked the PS543m sale of the group's aluminium business to France's Pechiney. Corus appealed against the decision in a Dutch court, but on March 13th the court sided with the supervisory board and the sale has now been abandoned. Corus's shares plunged by more than 60% as investors headed for the exit. The group's chairman said he would step down earlier than expected.The nub of the argument was that the relatively healthy Dutch arm believes it is propping up the loss-making British arm and that the mainly British top management has failed to grapple with its domestic problem. The Dutch refusal to endorse the sale to Pechiney was designed to stop good money being thrown after bad.Given the recovery in steel prices over the past 18 months, it is surprising that Corus has not done better. Regardless of the court ruling, Corus admits that it must undertake a costly restructuring of the British business, with thousands of jobs at stake. There is a risk of political interference, not to mention union rebellion. That takes the gloss off earlier cost-reduction efforts that have borne some fruit.There is also huge financial risk. Corus is better off than many competitors, including American ones, in that it does not face a looming pension crunch. As one analyst puts it, "Corus is an PS11 billion pension plan with a problematic steel business attached." But without Pechiney's money, Corus might have to resort to a rights issue. Its paltry equity base makes that look almost impossible. A euro1.6 billion ($1.8 billion) credit line expires next January; already Corus's banks are twitchy about extending it. There is talk that a break-up might reveal hidden value. But for the time being, investors are unlikely to return until they can see more clearly where Corus is going.