SteelThe wrong worryIS THE great steel boom about to bust? You could think so, judging by the steelmakers' cries of horror at the huge price rises that iron-ore miners have just forced on them. These came on top of sizeable rises for scrap steel, and even bigger ones for coking coal, the steelmen's other main raw material. These price rises all sprang partly from world recovery, but mostly from China's soaring demand for steel and raw materials. Yet the real threat is quite different: China's own steel industry.The ore-price hikes came as a shock. These prices, for the 12 months from April 1st, are led by the annual negotiations between the big Japanese steel firms and (separately) the big three miners: BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto, supplying ore from Australia, and CVRD, from Brazil. Last year these led to 19% rises. Until recently, analysts expected 20-30% this time. Rio Tinto was ready to settle at about 45%. No way, said CVRD: we want 90%.The end result, from two of the miners (with BHP still to settle), was 71.5%. South Korea's giant steelmaker, POSCO, and the Chinese leader, Baosteel, swiftly fell in line. Arcelor, from Europe, said it would resist. It is the world's number one, until the merger that will give Mittal Steel that place is complete. But last week it too had to surrender to CVRD, source of over half of its ore: 71.5% for ore in one form, 87% in another. Arcelor's shares promptly fell. So does this mean the end of the boom that multiplied Arcelor's operating profits four-fold last year, to EUR3.2 billion (about $4 billion at that time); that in 2003 saved Anglo-Dutch steel firm Corus (with much help from a new management) from near-death; and that may yet pull Canada's Stelco from bankruptcy protection? No. The price rises for raw materials are, indeed, large in percentage terms; and freight rates too are up fourfold since 2002. But, in dollars, the increases are much less fearsome: in all, for a big plant making, say, hot-rolled strip steel, maybe $40-60 per tonne of steel. And last year's soaring steel prices gave the steelmakers a large cushion. The steel price has slid a bit from its late-2004 peaks, and may well slide a bit more. Later in 2005 will not be as good for steelmen as now. But, taking the year as a whole, reckons Steven Burchell at CRU, a metals consultancy, their margins should be as big as they were in 2004. Really? Can steel too average $40-60 more than last year? Two months ago one could wonder. But since then Japan has seen carmakers forced actually to limit production by steel shortages; demand there and elsewhere looks solid. There is only one real cloud on the horizon. Last year China made some 275m tonnes of steel, over one-quarter of world output. Its steel firms hope to raise their capacity by 45m tonnes this year. China's government is trying to curb their enthusiasm. Raw-material shortages may rein them in. But suppose both curbs fail. Suppose, too, that China's broader economy slows a bit. Where would all that extra steel go, and at what price? That thought, not raw material costs, is what really keeps the steelmen awake at night. 