SteelArcelor, up in armsGUY DOLLE is no diplomat. When Lakshmi Mittal, boss of Mittal Steel, the biggest global steelmaker by volume, launched a hostile bid at the end of January for Arcelor, the second-biggest, the boss of Arcelor immediately rejected it--and in rather robust terms. Mr Dolle claimed that Arcelor is producing aristocratic perfume whilst Mittal is making plebeian eau de cologne. He pretended there was no industrial logic to the takeover plan. And he even said that he did not want his shareholders to be paid with the Indian-born Mr Mittal's "monkey money".ReutersDolle waves aside the monkey moneyMost of Mr Dolle's arguments were easily dealt with during the battle for shareholders' hearts and votes that he and Mr Mittal have been waging over the past months. The industrial logic of a merger of two companies that complement each other in geography and in the type of steel they produce is compelling. Mittal is big in America and emerging economies that demand lower-quality steel while Arcelor is a European company, producing mainly high-quality steel. The industry is consolidating. If Mr Mittal succeeds, he will create a producer more than three times the size of its nearest rival and as big as the entire Japanese steel business.Even the chorus of patriotic opposition has died down. Politicians in Spain, Luxembourg and France--Arcelor's most important bases--are starting to see the advantages of a global champion. And they increasingly see that they have little power to block a merger of two private firms.Mr Dolle had one good argument to wield against the Mittal bid. The steel giant's corporate governance is not fair to minority shareholders. The Mittal family controls 88% of the firm's shares and each of their shares carries ten votes. Three members of the clan--Mr Mittal, Aditya, his son who is also the company's chief financial officer, and Vanisha, his daughter--sit on the company' s nine-member board. Mr Mittal says he will rethink multiple voting-rights for shares--after the merger. Arcelor's governance on the other hand used to be exemplary. But over the past few weeks Mr Dolle has taken actions that suit him, rather than his shareholders. His first move to frustrate the Mittal bid was to transfer ownership of Dofasco, a recently acquired Canadian steelmaker, to Strategic Steel Stichting, a newly formed Dutch foundation. Mr Mittal intends to sell Dofasco to ThyssenKrupp, a German steelmaker, to avoid trouble with antitrust authorities and because Mittal is already a big force in North America. This will now be tricky: the Stichting is run by an Arcelor executive, a former Arcelor executive and an American lawyer, who have the power to decide whether Dofasco can be sold in the next five years. Mr Mittal says his lawyers are looking into how to undo the trust.To placate investors who might question the decision to ring-fence such an important asset, Arcelor raised its dividend by 54%. It will also make a special EUR5 billion payment to shareholders if Mr Mittal drops his bid or the takeover attempt fails. The two payouts make siding with Arcelor roughly as financially attractive to shareholders as accepting the Mittal bid. But Arcelor's debt will balloon as a result of the special dividends. Mr Mittal says this is not in the long-term interest of shareholders. Perhaps more tellingly, shareholder activists are up in arms. Institutional Shareholder Services, an American corporate-governance adviser, is recommending its clients oppose the re-election of Arcelor's chairman and deputy chairman. Colette Neuville, boss of ADAM, a French shareholder-rights association, who says she represents about 5% of Arcelor's shareholders, intends to vote against re-electing 16 of the 18 Arcelor board members.Shareholders will probably not muster enough support to topple the board, but they may make other investors think harder about the Mittal offer. Mr Mittal intends to bid formally for Arcelor in the next couple of weeks. Shareholders will have 35 days to decide. Mr Mittal hopes the outcome of his bid will be clear by the end of June. So does Mr Dolle who has already booked his holiday for July. One of them may have a rather joyless summer. 