Supreme Court Blocks EPA Clean Power Plan While Legal Challenges ProceedThe Supreme Court has blocked the EPA Clean Power Plan and U.S. steel shipments ticked up in December, even as they lost ground from 2014 on the entire year.The Supreme Court has blocked President Obama and the Environmental Protection Agency's new climate rules for power plants, dealing a major blow to the president's climate agenda.Free Sample Report: Our February Metal Buying OutlookIn an order released Tuesday night, the court said it is placing a stay on the EPA's Clean Power Plan to cut carbon pollution from power plants while industry and state lawsuits move forward. This is not unexpected, as the rule -- currently being challenged by 29 states and several industry groups -- will be heard at the D.C. circuit court in June and could go through appeals that could last more than a year after that.The length of the appeals process is important because the High Court granted the request in a 5-4 vote on Tuesday night, saying the rule was on hold until the circuit court reviews it and all Supreme Court appeals are exhausted. The court's four liberal justices dissented from the decision.The rules would have required existing electricity generating utilities to reduce carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions by 32% in the next 15 years. The Court "stayed" a decision on implementing the rule while it considers the legal challenges.White House press secretary Josh Earnest said in a statement that the administration disagrees with the order, but "we remain confident that we will prevail" when the rule is argued on its merits.That stands in stark contrast to the statements from the 29-state majority challenging the law and the industry groups that have joined the lawsuit.The American Iron and Steel Institute (AISI) released a statement saying it applauded the decision. Wisconsin Attorney General Brad Schimel (R.), one of the 29 attorneys general challenging the rule, took his applause a bit further.Free Download: The January 2016 MMI Report"It is an extraordinary action for the Supreme Court of the United States to grant a stay and is telling of the obvious illegality of the rule," Schimel said in a statement. "It's imperative that we fight back against the federal government's intrusion into the affairs of the State of Wisconsin."The AISI also reported that for the month of December, U.S. steel mills shipped 6,556,342 net tons, a 1.5% increase from the 6,457,870 nt shipped in November 2015, and a 17.8% decrease from the 7,978,310 nt shipped in December 2014. Shipments for the full year 2015 were 86,546,657 nt, an 11.9% decrease vs. full year 2014 shipments of 98,248,666 nt. Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service