Tariffs on steelGeorge Bush, protectionistNOBODY was surprised, despite affectations of shock in some quarters, when George Bush announced this week his plans to protect the American steel industry. The proposals had been trailed; they were regarded in Washington as politically inescapable. The fact that the president did what everybody expected him to makes this decision no less damaging, and no less stupid.This steel-tariff plan, it is important to remember, lies well outside the ordinary run of bad economic policy: it is so wrong it makes other kinds of wealth-destroying intervention feel inadequate. And was it really politically inescapable? What a depressingly feeble excuse from a president who has promised, and shown, strong leadership in other respects, and who had claimed, by the way, to be a champion of liberal trade. Mr Bush and his advisers should be ashamed.The administration has announced a complicated schedule of supposedly temporary high tariffs (ranging up to 30%) on different kinds of steel. Something like $8 billion of imports from Europe, Japan, South Korea and other countries will be affected, about 10% of the world market. It would be bad enough if things stopped there. The policy as it stands will make most Americans worse off, by forcing them to pay more for their steel. Except in the short term it will also do little to help the people it is intended to help--namely, workers in the parts of America's steel industry that cannot compete with foreign suppliers or with America's own more productive mini-mills.The day after the tariffs were announced, National Steel joined the many other American steel makers already in bankruptcy (see article). Tariffs fail to address the real problem--high costs, including "legacy liabilities" in health-care and pension benefits. Many companies will fold anyway. When they do, putting workers out of a job and rendering those promised benefits null, the tariffs will only make the victims, as consumers, even worse off than they would have been.But the rot does not stop there. Europe now expects to face a surge in steel imports, and may well adopt the same self-destructive remedy. The damage will scale up globally, possibly spreading to other kinds of trade, and a good part of the cost will end up with developing-country producers. The leaders of Europe and the United States love to preach liberal trade to the benighted rulers of the developing world, and never tire of promising better access to their own markets. Fine words.The outrage in Europe's governments over the tariffs, like the shock at the news, is synthetic. Europe has forgotten more than America will ever know about trade protection (common agricultural policy, passim). The linkage now being advanced in Europe between, on one side, America's need for allies and, on the other, its protectionist affront to those friends, is also largely bogus. There is a long tradition in transatlantic relations of allowing mutually burdensome trade illiteracy to flourish in its own separate domain. But there is no need for additional unpersuasive criticisms of American policy. The straightforward case against what the administration has done is shaming enough on its own.What then should Mr Bush have done? As we argued last week, the principle should be "protect the worker, not the industry". The government should improve its assistance programmes for workers who lose their health-care benefits and pensions when firms fail, and it should look at new and more generous ways of helping workers find new jobs. These policies cost money, of course--but so does shutting out imports, and far more so, the only other difference being that the effect is disguised. It requires political spine, sometimes, to do the right thing. Mr Bush was supposed to have one. 