Tata SteelCast-iron argumentsON THE rich world's long march away from heavy industry, Britain once again finds itself to the fore. Unless Tata Steel UK is sold in the next few weeks, its Indian owner will close it down. Some 15,000 jobs are at stake--and thousands more in the local economy of the largest works, at Port Talbot, in south Wales. Because the glut is global, Britain is grappling with questions that are bearing down upon steelmakers around the world. Unfortunately, if Britain is any guide, governments are likely to come up with the wrong answers.The world's steel industry is buckling under low prices (see chart). Global crude steel output was about 1.6 billion tonnes in 2015 (Britain's share was only 11m tonnes). The OECD puts total overcapacity at a devastating 600m tonnes.Politicians and campaigners are falling over themselves to say why the business must be saved (see Bagehot). They make three arguments, none of which stands up to scrutiny. Some claim that steel is "strategic", like banks, which needed saving to prevent an economy-wrecking collapse of the payments and credit system. Others call steel a "foundation industry"--a grandiose way of saying that British manufacturers need a domestic supply. In fact steel is a globally traded commodity. If Britain suffered a geopolitical or economic crisis so severe that imports were blocked, steel would be the least of its problems.Another argument is that steel is cyclical. If only Tata Steel hung on for other makers to fold first, it would be a decent business. However, those 600m tonnes are grounds for scepticism. So is the fact that Tata's British steel operations recorded pre-tax losses in 2014-15 of PS768m ($1.2 billion) on sales of PS4.2 billion. Port Talbot is said to be losing PS1m a day. As an investor, Tata is long-term almost to a fault. It paid PS6.2 billion for the business in 2007 and has spent PS2 billion to cover losses. Yet it reckons its British steel plants are worth next to nothing.Those who disagree do not have to take Tata's word for it. The business is for sale and anyone who thinks he can make money should bid. Specialised parts of the business, including its Shotton and Trostre plants, which make coated panels and tin-plated steel respectively, will almost certainly find buyers. One possible bidder thinks he could replace Port Talbot's blast furnaces with plant that runs on scrap (see article).But watch out for the small print. Buyers seeking subsidies and tax-breaks will press a third set of arguments--that steel's failure is the fault of government policy. Electricity prices are higher for Tata in Britain than for steelmakers in the rest of Europe. Yet this is the result of policies judged sensible for Britain as a whole. When objectives conflict, the longer-term, sustainable one should prevail. In any case, electricity is about 6% of costs: the heavy-industry rebate would surely be too small to save Port Talbot. Some want the state to take on the cost of cleaning up sites, but, like debt, environmental liabilities are part of the business. They should stay with it.Equally misguided is the attempt to urge the government to impose steep tariffs on steel being "dumped", especially by China. In general, anti-dumping duties are unwise because they penalise consumers and lead to tit-for-tat protection (see Free exchange). When a globally traded commodity is at stake, they are doubly foolish. Tariffs against Chinese commodity steel would be futile--because, in a world market, steel from somewhere else would take its place. A general duty on steel would punish Britain's most successful manufacturers. It makes no sense to save jobs in an ailing industry like steel by taking them away from a successful one like cars.The aim of policy should be to protect workers, not jobs. The state could help the salvageable subsidiaries find buyers by socialising Tata's pension fund, which is almost fully paid up. In the parts that fail, the government should focus on "active" labour-market policies that match people to work using job exchanges and retraining. It should invest in infrastructure to help business in general and offer grants for people who want to move to new jobs. None of this will be easy. But, without a buyer, it is the least bad outcome.