Teck Resources Reports Spill; Japanese Copper Drifts DownwardsTeck Resources Ltd has reported and "is investigating another spill at its Trail smelting complex in British Columbia, but said on Sunday it does not expect the incident to have a long-term impact on fish or the environment," reports Reuters."Up to 25 cubic meters (883 cubic feet) of a solution containing some sodium hydroxide was released into a sewer line on Tuesday, Teck said in a statement. The sewer leads to a treatment plant that discharges into the Columbia River.""Sodium hydroxide is a corrosive chemical that when concentrated can burn and blister skin. The liquid released at the Trail facility, home to one of the world's largest zinc and lead smelting and refining complexes, was diluted with water.""'Initial information indicates that the sewage treatment plant process may have diluted the high pH solution somewhat but otherwise had a limited effect,' Teck spokesman Richard Deane said in an email on Sunday.""Deane said Teck is investigating the incident, and outside experts will complete an environmental impact assessment."In metal price news for copper...The Japanese copper cash price saw the biggest decline of the day, dropping 1.2 percent to close on Friday, January 31. The price of US copper producer grade 110 fell 0.8 percent. The price of US copper producer grade 122 saw a 0.8 percent decline. The price of US copper producer grade 102 fell 0.7 percent.* Get the complete prices every day on the MetalMiner IndX(sm)Chinese copper prices closed flat for the day. The price of Chinese copper bar was essentially unchanged. The Chinese copper cash price saw little movement last Friday. Chinese copper wire saw little change in its price last Friday. For the fifth consecutive day, the price of Chinese bright copper scrap held flat.FREE Download: The Monthly MMI(r) Report - covering the Copper market.On the LME, the cash price of primary copper declined 0.7 percent to $7,155 per metric ton. The 3-month price of copper weakened by 0.6 percent on the LME, settling at $7,115 per metric ton.