Texas Rare Earths Wins Major Rare Earths Defense Supply ContractTexas Rare Earth Resources Corp. was awarded a Broad Agency Announcement (BAA) research contract by the United States Defense Logistics Agency's Strategic Materials Division.Free Sample Report: Our Monthly Metal Buying OutlookThe Defense Logistics Agency is the Department of Defense's largest logistics combat support agency, providing worldwide logistics support in both peacetime and wartime to the military services as well as several civilian agencies and foreign countries.The DLA Strategic Materials Division is charged with maintaining cognizance of worldwide strategic and critical materials' supply chains from the source to final assembly and evaluating the capability of these supply chains to support national defense and essential civilian industries, and developing mitigation solutions when access to materials are insufficient to provide support for national defense and emergency response.In May, Texas Rare Earths successfully completed the first phase of its stage 2 separation process development, using the K-Technologies, Inc. (K-Tech) Continuous Ion Chromatography (CIC) methodology. By doing this, K-Tech removes the light rare earth elements, lanthanum and cerium, from purified pregnant leach solution (PLS) feedstock in a straightforward, low-cost manner. The resultant aqueous product stream can be processed to make a commercially marketable mid/heavy  rare earth mixed concentrate.Free Download: Latest Metal Price Trends in the September MMI Report"Removing the low-value lanthanum and cerium at an early stage with minimal separation effort bodes well for the overall efficiency and economy of this process and also provides us the option of making a marketable, praseodymium/neodymium plus mid/heavy rare earth concentrate," said Dan Gorski, CEO, Texas Rare Earths. "We intend to examine the economic possibilities of producing and marketing such a concentrate. However, our primary objective over the short term is to use the CIC process to further refine the mid/heavy concentrate and to produce individual high purity rare earth element products that meet all commercial specifications."If India open Rare Earth Industry to private parties, and introduced Make In India scheme in this field, defenitely India will get No one position.Indian Rare Earth Ltd. aGovt of India company is beach mineral field since 1965. But India was 14th place in Garnet production.Once V V Mineral entered in 1988, because of V V M,s export, India become no two in 1993 and World no One producer from 1999. This can be seen from Roskil report published from London.  In Rare Earth product, by spending huge amount to our 3rd rated politician and media, entry by the Sons of the Soil is prevented and give Red Carpet reception to foreigners.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service