The gold industryBarrick's betCREATING the world's largest gold company might normally be considered an acceptable reason to do a little bragging. The temptation is all the greater when the company in question, Barrick Gold, is Canadian and is wresting the crown from Newmont Mining, an American rival. Yet in describing Barrick's $10.4 billion friendly takeover of Placer Dome, another Canadian firm, Gregory Wilkins, the company's CEO, tied himself in verbal knots to avoid saying that the new entity--with a combined production of 8.4m ounces and reserves of 150m ounces--will be the new gold king. Perhaps he knows it will not last. The deal is set to close on January 19th, but already analysts are speculating that Barrick's move will set off another round of consolidation, similar to one that started in 2001 when Barrick bought Homestake Mining, an American firm. In short order, Newmont acquired Franco-Nevada and Normandy Mining, Kinross Gold merged with Echo Bay and TVX Gold, and Anglogold, a South African mining giant, merged with Ashanti. David Cox of Metals Economics Group, a group of industry analysts, says the big gold companies are constantly chasing each other's tails, driven partly by the desire to be the top producer. More than ego is involved. With the price of gold soaring well above $500 an ounce--touching levels last seen 24 years ago--gold-mining companies are scrambling to find new reserves. Exploration budgets were cut drastically in the late 1990s, when gold languished below $300 an ounce. New discoveries sank along with them. A brisk turnaround in exploration spending began in 2003, but the lag between initial discovery and confirmation of a find through extensive drilling means companies need speedier ways to replenish reserves. That means more acquisitions. In choosing Placer Dome, Barrick had its eye on more than the 2.9m ounces it will add to production, and its 60.7m ounces of reserves. Both companies operate mines in Nevada, Australia and Tanzania, and Mr Wilkins estimates that the new entity could save at least $200m a year by combining everything from mining and processing to port clearance. That would help keep Barrick's production costs among the lowest in the industry, an advantage in the face of mounting pressures from high energy prices, a shortage of skilled workers, and appreciating currencies in Canada, Australia and South Africa. Is bigger better for Barrick? Analysts answer with a qualified yes. Size brings diversity and the flexibility to manage risks. It makes the company's shares more appealing to big investors. But it also means that Barrick will hold the largest portfolio of fixed-price future sales in the industry, which will limit the extent to which it benefits from higher gold prices. Reaching the top rung is vindication of sorts for Peter Munk, the founder and now chairman of Barrick. Mr Munk, who is less bashful about such things than today's managers, said ten years ago he wanted Barrick to become the world's largest gold-mining company. His plan almost derailed when Barrick made a tentative deal to buy Bre-X Minerals, a Canadian start-up in Indonesia. Luckily the deal fell through before Bre-X was exposed as a multi-billion dollar fraud. Just as well that Placer Dome has a long history behind it. 