The new RandlordSOUTH AFRICA's first commercial chieftains were the "Randlords"--a group of tough, tent-dwelling white immigrants who trekked up across the veld to the Witwatersrand after the discovery of gold there in 1886. A century later, a new breed of Randlord is emerging. But this one travels in a white Mercedes, lives in a plush villa in the leafy suburbs, is permanently on the telephone--and is black.Nobody has floated more effortlessly up South Africa's corporate ladder than Cyril Ramaphosa. Once a trade unionist, more recently the secretary-general of the African National Congress and the architect of South Africa's new constitution, Mr Ramaphosa now sits in a comfortable office in a mock-Georgian business park, landscaped with ornamental poplar trees and fountains. He is no longer seen as Nelson Mandela's likely heir, but his company, New Africa Investments Ltd (NAIL), has rapidly amassed a variety of interests, including newspapers, beer, property, mobile telephones, banking and life insurance. Now it is on the verge of a deal that would catapult Mr Ramaphosa firmly into the Randlord category.NAIL wants to buy control of the firm Cecil Rhodes started--Gold Fields of South Africa, the country's fourth-biggest mining house (after Anglo American, De Beers and Gencor). A deal is not yet on the table, but there are reasons to believe one will be: one of Mr Ramaphosa's many new white friends is Johann Rupert, whose family company, Rembrandt, controls 40% of Gold Fields' parent company (see ). Together, they want to secure joint control by transferring a further 40%, held by an unlisted company called Asteroid, to Mr Ramaphosa. Asteroid, in a typically Byzantine South African ownership tangle constructed to fend off predators, is partly owned by Gold Fields itself, and partly by one of Gold Fields' operating mines.In most countries this sort of corporate intricacy would be frowned upon; in South Africa, it marks Mr Ramaphosa out as a businessman of potentially Oppenheimerish dimensions (inevitably, he has already charmed his way on to the board of that family's main company, Anglo American, as well). Yet there are still a few obstacles in his path: notably, how to raise the money. Asteroid is worth over 1.8 billion rand ($400m). NAIL's market capitalisation is only 1.2 billion rand. Mzi Khumalo, another prospective new Randlord, has already run into trouble financing his 2.96 billion rand acquisition of JCI, another mining house, from Anglo last year. He is currently in merger talks with Lonrho.But why anyway should Mr Ramaphosa be eager to enter the gold business? The industry in South Africa is in a pitiful state. Last year gold output fell to its lowest for 40 years. The gold price is weak. And since South African gold lies buried far beneath the soil--the deepest mine shafts go down more than four kilometres (2 1/2 miles)--it is becoming increasingly expensive and complicated to dig the stuff out.Nor is Gold Fields itself an obvious buy. It is the oldest South African mining house, with a stuffy, patrician air. Recently it has performed dreadfully. Pre-tax profits fell 30.4% in the first quarter this year, to 254m rand. The cost per tonne of mining at Kloof, its worst-performing mine, is over 50% higher than at a comparable neighbouring mine run by Anglo. Overall labour productivity at Gold Fields is about a fifth below that of Anglo gold mines. Mr Ramaphosa offers as part of the explanation for his interest the more vibrant state of the gold industry elsewhere in Africa, and the opportunities there for Gold Fields. The company is already developing a gem of a deposit in Ghana, the Tarkwa mine, and is busy sniffing about in other parts of the continent. Arguably, a company under black control would have an advantage in securing concessions: some African countries remain uncomfortable about dealing with white South African mineowners.On top of this, Mr Ramaphosa is bullish about the prospects for goldmining at home in South Africa. One reason for his confidence is that he expects labour relations and productivity to improve dramatically after a change of ownership. Labour accounts for about half of a mine's running costs, but in the past relations between managers and miners have been abysmal. Profitability suffers from periodic strikes, fights and deaths in the mines. Management is brutish, hierarchical and white. With his background as leader of the National Union of Mineworkers in the 1980s, not to forget his potent mix of charm and ruthlessness, Mr Ramaphosa probably feels he can only improve industrial relations--and perhaps productivity.It is a seductive idea. But it will take more than a union pedigree and a black face to turn Gold Fields around. Plenty of jobs would have to go as well. And since each miner is thought to support up to ten other people, such decisions may be much more painful for Mr Ramaphosa to take than for owners who lack his political baggage. Which invites the question: why is he intent on striking out into such a fraught business?The real explanation may well be that despite his metamorphosis into a besuited businessman Mr Ramaphosa remains a child of the struggle against apartheid. After years of exclusion from the white corporate world, the temptation for the new black Randlords to control a proper South African conglomerate seems too great to resist. And such is the prominence of gold in the history and imagination of South Africa that a conglomerate without mining interests seems inconceivable. Having lived for so long in the shadow of the giant white mining houses, he would dearly love to prove that he can run them better. But he is battling against geology--and much else.