The aluminium industryLight tearsWILL high energy costs force half of Europe's aluminium-smelting plants to close within a few years? That is what the industry is telling the European Union and national governments. It wants them to twist arms in the electricity industry to prevent this happening--and in France, where such arm-twisting is still the norm and the state owns the main power generator, it has met some sympathy.Does it deserve any, when even in euro terms the smelters' output price has risen a quarter since its 2003 low? "Primary"--brand-new--aluminium starts (typically, in Australia) as bauxite. About five tonnes of that are chemically refined, usually near the mine, into two of alumina, an aluminium oxide. This is smelted, by passing a huge current through it, into one tonne of almost pure metal, at a cost of 15 megawatt hours (MWh) of electricity. This is not a problem for smelters with access to cheap electricity such as hydropower, which explains Norway's 1.2m-tonne output. But most smelters rely on long-term contracts with generators which have rival customers, and some of these contracts--notably those in Germany and the Netherlands, which smelt about 1m tonnes between them--are due soon for renewal. The smelters fear price rises of up to 40%. American-owned Alcan, rival to Alcoa for the world's top spot, is gloomy. In 2003 it added Pechiney, a big French producer, to its European stable, which now produces over a quarter of western Europe's 4.5m tonnes. If prices rise above $30 per MWh in Europe, it reckons, its plants cannot survive. A small plant in France and a big Dutch one are both under threat.These are surprisingly low figures: the European Aluminium Association claims members are already paying around EUR30 ($40); equivalent to some $600 per tonne of fresh aluminium. But even at that level, is electricity the real problem? An extra $10-15 per MWh would add $150-225 to the cost of each tonne of aluminium. But a bigger factor these days is the raw material, alumina. For years its spot price drifted around $200 a tonne, ending 2002 near $150. Then came world recovery and the Chinese. At one moment last year, the spot price hit $530, before diving below $300 as Chinese demand slowed. An Indian supplier this week sold alumina at around $420--ie, $840 per tonne of aluminium.Spot prices are not long-term contract prices and alumina prices could fall again as the bauxite refiners' capacity rises. This will depend on aluminium demand and prices. Around half of all aluminium goes into vehicles and buildings, competing with steel. Just as steel demand and prices have soared, thanks notably to China, so have those of aluminium. It has risen $200 a tonne--matching those threatened future power-price rises--in the past six months. If Chinese demand persists, high prices probably will too. Alumina suppliers--which include, not least, vertically integrated Alcoa and Alcan themselves, China's Chalco and the alumina arm of Russia's Rusal--will rejoice. The smelters will survive. The end-users will pay up. Power prices are a genuine long-term worry for the smelters. But the real challenge now is one familiar to many similar industries: raw material costs and the state of the end-market. And, in Europe--which is why the cries are coming from there--forex markets and the strength of the euro.