The steel industryWelding bellsEVEN by "old economy" standards, steel making is hardly a business that sets pulses racing. Yet heartbeats quickened in Europe's struggling steel industry on February 19th. Usinor of France, Arbed of Luxembourg and Spain's Aceralia announced a three-way merger to form a group with 110,000 employees and annual sales of euro30 billion ($27.3 billion). If approved by regulators, the deal will create the world's biggest steel group, capable of producing 45m tonnes of steel each year (see chart).It is a big if. The European Commission is expected to spend months poring over the proposed deal, as Francis Mer, boss of Usinor and co-chairman of the new group, acknowledged when it was unveiled. Last year, the commission blocked a three-way tie-up in Europe's aluminium industry, despite evidence that the companies involved had become uncompetitive on their own. The steel companies know that if they are to avoid the same fate, they must be prepared to make big concessions.Regulators will be particularly interested in the new group's 40% share of Europe's market for flat-rolled carbon steel, used mostly for making cars and white goods. Globally, the group's share of this market is a less threatening 10%--testimony to the steel industry's fragmented nature. Peter Dupont, an analyst with Commerzbank, says the new company will anyway try to shrink its flat-rolled carbon steel production by focusing on its most efficient plants. Some 60% of euro2 billion in projected cost-savings will come from this tactic.The proposed merger brings a spot of cheer to a troubled business. Earlier this month, Corus, an Anglo-Dutch steel group, said it will lay off 6,000 workers and cut production by one-fifth in Britain, where operations have been ravaged by sterling's strength. Most steel companies have low stockmarket valuations, even though they are profitable (Usinor and its partners have a combined market value of just euro7 billion). Fears of an economic slowdown, most acute in America, combine with evidence of global over-production to keep investors leery. Steel prices have been falling and are at their lowest for around 20 years.This week's deal could provoke others into action. ThyssenKrupp, Germany's biggest steel maker, held abortive merger talks with Usinor last year, then failed to spin off its steel operation. The latest combination puts it under renewed pressure to do a deal of its own. Again, though, it will rely on the European Commission's accepting the argument that global, not local, factors should settle antitrust questions.This argument has some merit, mainly because price pressure clearly comes from the ability to ship steel from low-cost developing countries to more mature economies. In important ways, though, the steel industry remains far from global. Assuming the three-way merger goes ahead, the new group and its two nearest rivals combined will control a little over 10% of the market, paltry compared with the concentration in other basic industries. Big markets, particularly America's, remain hopelessly fragmented, with little sign that they can be quickly and profitably consolidated.Indeed, asked whether the new group intends to expand beyond Europe, Mr Mer stressed that the more important challenge will be getting the merger right. That will take at least two years and will involve sensitive local negotations over job losses and plant closures. Perhaps the latest deal is less a harbinger of globalisation than a pragmatic effort to create a powerhouse in Europe.Is that the right strategy? Mr Dupont points out that Europe's most profitable flat-rolled steel maker last year, per tonne produced, was Austria's VA Stahl. By itself, Usinor is capable of producing 19m tonnes of such steel annually. VA Stahl can make just 4m tonnes. Size, it seems, isn't everything.