The restructuring of RusalSaving the oligarchsReutersANYONE watching Russian television this summer could have been forgiven for thinking that Oleg Deripaska, one of the country's richest tycoons and the boss of Rusal, the world's largest aluminium company, was finished. The closure of three factories, one of them owned by Mr Deripaska, in Pikalevo, a small cement-producing town near St Petersburg, had left workers without pay. In protest they had blocked the road and called for help from Vladimir Putin, the prime minister, who appeared on June 4th like a superhero in a sports jacket, with a penitent Mr Deripaska in tow. "I wanted the authors of what happened here to see it with their own eyes," Mr Putin thundered, in a tirade beamed across Russia by state television. "You have made thousands of residents hostage to your ambition, your lack of professionalism and perhaps your greed.""Come here and sign," Mr Putin instructed Mr Deripaska, pointing to an agreement to restart the factory and holding out a pen. Mr Deripaska signed. "My pen--give it back," Mr Putin then snapped. In the inflamed imagination of Russia's disgruntled citizens, Mr Deripaska was about to share the fate of other disgraced oligarchs such as Mikhail Khodorkovsky, the former boss of Yukos, a dismembered oil firm, who has languished in prison for more than six years. The stony-faced presenters did not tell viewers that the agreement had in fact been reached before Mr Putin's visit, nor did they mention that state-owned Vnesheconombank (VEB) had agreed to extend a $4.5 billion loan to Rusal for another year, even though the amount exceeds its normal limit on exposure to a single firm. The public would have been even more surprised to learn that a state bank would soon be offering to invest in Rusal's planned initial public offering (IPO) in Hong Kong. The rescue of Mr Deripaska, in turn, is a sign of the ever-closer ties between the Kremlin and Russia's oligarchs.In November the supervisory board of VEB, headed by Mr Putin, agreed to spend about $600m buying as much as 3% of Rusal, which is registered in Jersey. The money will come from the interest earned by a fund holding a portion of Russia's income from oil and gas, which is managed by VEB. By law, that interest would normally accrue to the fund, which is dedicated to supplementing Russian citizens' private pensions. But Alexei Kudrin, Russia's finance minister, who is also a member of VEB's board, says VEB will be allowed to keep some of it to invest in Rusal. "We have an interest in Rusal settling all its financial questions and coming out of the crisis. Private investors will see that we are supporting this deal and that will be a good signal," he says. All this has been crucial in keeping Rusal afloat. The firm emerged from the aluminium wars of the 1990s, when Mr Deripaska and his former partner, Roman Abramovich, gained control of 70% of Russia's aluminium industry. Cheap electricity, along with efficient management, made the firm very profitable. In 2004 Mr Deripaska bought out Mr Abramovich and began to expand his empire vertically, horizontally and tangentially, sweeping up carmakers, insurers, construction companies, airlines and airports. In 2007 he merged Rusal, his main asset, with rival Sual and the aluminium operations of Glencore, a commodities broker, creating the world's largest aluminium firm. Next Mr Deripaska competed with Vladimir Potanin, another Russian businessman, to win a 25% stake in Norilsk Nickel, the world's biggest nickel producer, which he finally secured last year at the height of the commodities boom.When commodity prices plunged, so did these firms' revenues, and Mr Deripaska's net worth fell from $28 billion to $3.5 billion. His spending spree had been fuelled by cheap loans that were no longer available. In March Rusal declared a standstill on some repayments. VEB's support has helped restore his finances to order. On December 3rd Rusal said it had reached a deal to restructure debts of $17 billion, including $7 billion held by foreigners, clearing the way for the IPO. Foreign banks had no desire to write down their massive loans, nor to seize prized assets against the Kremlin's wishes. The only creditor of Rusal which threatened bankruptcy (and was promptly repaid) was Russia's Alfa Bank, which has as much political backing as Mr Deripaska.Hong Kong's stockmarket must now decide whether to approve the listing. A secondary listing is planned on the Paris exchange next year. If everything goes according to plan, Mr Deripaska's stake in Rusal would fall to below 50%.Yet the Kremlin has not, as some observers had predicted, used the crisis to renationalise Rusal's assets. Some officials argue that this shows the authorities' commitment to market forces. But the Kremlin has not left the fate of the company in the hands of creditors. Instead, it has helped Mr Deripaska maintain his grip.Nor is Mr Deripaska the only tycoon to have received such help. During the oil-fired economic boom of recent years Russian firms accumulated more than $430 billion of foreign debts. Fearing that prized assets might fall into foreign hands, the Kremlin directed state banks to lend to indebted property, metals and consumer-goods firms and to buy shares in such firms as Lukoil and Norilsk Nickel. Cynics argue that Russia's rulers benefit more by leaving assets in the hands of tycoons beholden to the state than by handing them over to corrupt and incompetent bureaucrats.When Mr Putin came to power, 22 business groups controlled 40% of Russia's industrial output, according to the World Bank. Mr Putin's admirers, including some foreign investors, saw the attack on Yukos as an attempt to dilute this concentration. Instead it marked the beginning of a system whereby a cabal of bureaucrats and businessmen friendly to the Kremlin manage important assets for their own benefit and what they deem to be the state's. The line between the bureaucracy and private assets has become increasingly blurred in recent years. Witness the proliferation of opaque outfits called state corporations, which manage public assets but retain profits for their own benefit and submit to little public scrutiny. The most notable is Russian Technologies, a holding group for some 500 state-owned firms run by Sergei Chemezov, a friend and former colleague of Mr Putin in the KGB. State banks have pledged to restructure the debts of its subsidiaries and have poured billions into Avtovaz, a carmaker in which Renault holds a 25% stake.Mr Deripaska, for his part, acknowledges that Rusal's fate is up to the government. "If the state says we need to give it up, we'll give it up. I don't separate myself from the state. I have no other interests," he told the Financial Times two years ago. These words are just as true today. As for the Russian public, it may have to be satisfied with the drama at Pikalevo. 