The diamond businessEndless questBarren Lands: An Epic Search for Diamonds in the North American Arctic.  By Kevin Krajick. Henry Holt/Times Books; 442 pages; $26Diamond: A Journey to the Heart of an Obsession. By Matthew Hart. Walker & Co; 288 pages; $26. Fourth Estate (January); PS15.99 Fourth EstateALTHOUGH these lively histories share a villain--De Beers, the dark manipulator of the diamond trade--their indictments lack conviction. Neither author is able to persuade himself, let alone his readers, that the cartel is so very bad. By contrast their heroes really are heroic. For Kevin Krajick the good guys are the prospectors; for Matthew Hart they are the diamond cutters too.Since the late 19th century, when De Beers came under the control of Cecil Rhodes, it has dominated the diamond market. It sells about $5 billion-worth of rough diamonds a year, closely adjusting supply to demand. American trustbusters and crimewatchers have at various times concluded that this constituted anti-competitive behaviour. But who really has an interest in cutting diamond prices by breaking up the cartel? As dealers in Antwerp and Tel Aviv will admit, the diamond business rests on two supports: greed and vanity. Few of those in the trade, and none of the estimated 85% of American women who own at least one piece of diamond jewellery, want to see them cheapened. As that wise song has it:  The De Beers cartel is also the world's best hope of crippling the trade in so-called blood diamonds--the diamonds that promote and prolong the wars in Sierra Leone, Angola and elsewhere in Africa. It alone has the market muscle, through its purchases and through identification marks, to bring diamonds to market with reliable guarantees of origin. But though the story of De Beers and what it actually does is a worthy one, it is also rather dull. Mr Krajick, a talented storyteller, strikes it rich when he examines the freelance prospectors whose finds sometimes threatened the cartel's hold on the diamond trade. John Williamson, for instance, a Clark Gable lookalike who, clad in filthy shorts and sickened by dysentery and malaria, searched in vain for gemstones in Tanzania. Unable to pay his bills, he was humiliated in front of his friends in a bar by a hotel manager in Mwanza. His revenge was sweet: years later, now the finder and owner of one of the world's largest diamond mines, "he bought the Mwanza hotel, strolled in, and threw the manager into the street."More strictly heroic are Chuck Fipke, a relentless prospector, and his geologist partner, Stew Blusson. Before they got going, North America was known as a good place to sell diamonds but a bad place to find them. Working in terrible terrain in gruesome weather in winter, eaten alive by mosquitoes, blackflies and deerflies in summer, they made one of the world's richest discoveries of diamonds in the Barren Lands of northern Canada.  But, as yet, none of their finds has come up with a diamond to rival the famous stones lauded in Mr Hart's history. These include the majestic Koh-i-Noor, the massive Cullinan and the Hope diamond, which once graced the unfortunate neck of Marie Antoinette and which, in its 40 years at the Smithsonian in Washington, DC, has drawn more visitors than anything else on display.Gems owe much of their beauty to the craftsmen who cut them. Mr Hart gives a detailed account of the three years Gabi Tolkowsky spent converting the Centenary diamond discovered in South Africa in 1986, into a magnificent sparkler with 247 facets. This masterpiece proceeded not just from the heart and mind of a single man but from generations of a great Jewish diamond family. Gabi's great-uncle, Marcel Tolkowsky, a mathematician as well as a diamond cutter, invented the modern brilliant cut in 1914 when he laid down the precise facets and angles needed for maximum sparkle. Gemstones cut by virtuoso craftsmen such as these inspired what the trade magazine Advertising Age has called the greatest advertising slogan of the 20th century: "A diamond is forever". And that true-love slogan, you've guessed it, belongs to De Beers. 