The iron chancellorTHE typical Latin American captain of industry is an instinctive fan of the command-and-control school of management, more accustomed to giving orders than to seeking ideas from others. It is hard to recognise Benjamin Steinbruch as one of that breed. It is not just his solicitous charm (he offers polite apologies for arriving late--an unexpectedly complicated dental appointment, he explains, the result of several months of having had to put business before teeth). Rather, what marks Mr Steinbruch out is his power of quiet persuasion. This man can end up persuading you to buy a stake in his company.That is precisely the effect he has had on several big investors. His skill as an alliance-builder is one of the things that has turned Mr Steinbruch, at 44, into Brazil's most powerful businessman. His family owns half of Grupo Vicunha, the country's largest textile firm. Although Vicunha hardly shines--it made net profits in 1996 of less than $5m on sales of $1.3 billion--it has served Mr Steinbruch as a launchpad towards greater things.The ascent began with Brazil's privatisations in the early 1990s. With the help of local banks, pension funds and some foreign investors, he bought Latin America's biggest integrated steel maker (Companhia Siderurgica Nacional, CSN), an electricity distributor in Rio (Light), and three railway companies. Mr Steinbruch's boldest step came last May, when he and a group of investors outbid a more powerful consortium for a controlling stake in Companhia Vale do Rio Doce (CVRD), the world's largest producer of iron ore, and the multi-faceted jewel in the Brazilian state's crown. With consolidated sales of $5 billion in 1996, it also owns big aluminium, gold and paper products businesses, and stakes in four Brazilian steel firms, including CSN.In general, Brazil's family entrepreneurs avoid debt and insist on total control in any venture. Mr Steinbruch was prepared to borrow to win CVRD: most of CSN's 39% stake in the winning consortium was covered by a $1.1 billion loan from America's NationsBank. Mr Steinbruch became CVRD's executive chairman, though the firm, like CSN, is run under an agreement between a nucleus of shareholders. "Nobody is good or big enough to manage things on their own," says Mr Steinbruch. He reckons that this model of "shared administration" is how Brazilian companies can achieve the scale to expand internationally.For it is clear that CVRD does not represent the limit of Mr Steinbruch's ambition. With Telecom Italia, Vicunha has won a mobile-phone licence for Bahia in Brazil's north-east. CSN is talking to America's Nucor about a joint venture to build a steel mill elsewhere in the north-east. With a Mexican ally, CSN bid unsuccessfully for Sidor, a big Venezuelan steel maker privatised in December. And Mr Steinbruch wants CVRD to swap exploration rights in its rich Carajas mineral reserve for a stake in mining projects elsewhere in Latin America, Africa and Asia.Behind most of Mr Steinbruch's deals lies the idea that privatisation in Latin America represents a unique opportunity to control assets that would otherwise take generations to assemble, and that private managers will be far more successful than the state at sweating those assets for profit. For anyone wanting to be one of the managers who gain control of privatised assets, it is therefore worth taking a few risks. As Mr Steinbruch says, "It's no good being ready in 1999" for privatisations happening now.So far, this logic has worked. Since 1995 CSN has thrived: its gross operating margin was a record 34% in the first nine months of 1996. The firm's managers say investments in easing production bottlenecks and infrastructure (such as a coal port and railways) is helping them to reduce costs, which are falling by close to 10% a year. Although CVRD was well-run by the state, Mr Steinbruch expects to cut operating costs there by 30% by the end of this year.But if the returns from Mr Steinbruch's strategy are clear, so are the risks. The first is that iron and steel is a commodity business. There are benefits to this: since 85% of CVRD's sales come from exports, the firm is insulated from the current sharp slowdown in Brazil's economy. Yet, by the same token, Mr Steinbruch's firms are likely to be hurt by lower world iron and steel prices caused by Asia's woes. And the doubling of interest rates in October to defend Brazil's currency suddenly makes Mr Steinbruch's readiness to borrow seem a lot more risky.There is also the question of what to do when the empire has been built. Mr Steinbruch insists that he is not a conglomerator. Yet his empire faces the familiar conglomerate dangers of management overstretch and lack of focus. Sooner rather than later, Mr Steinbruch is likely to have to reshuffle his impressive industrial portfolio. It makes sense for CVRD and CSN to merge and rationalise their iron, steel and transport interests, for example. And CVRD will have to decide which of its non-iron businesses to develop, and which to sell. Encouragingly, Mr Steinbruch is now moving to consolidate CVRD's various pulp and paper holdings, though whether his purpose is to build them or sell them remains unclear.The trouble is that Mr Steinbruch is not answerable to a single set of shareholders--something even the most ardent conglomerator puts up with. So far, all sets have been happy to let Mr Steinbruch proceed with his empire-building. When he starts to make choices, that could change, especially if Brazil's pension funds (which have close ties to the government) face urgent needs for liquidity. Then Mr Steinbruch's skills as the supreme diplomat of Brazilian business will be put to the test. 