This Morning in Metals Precious Metal Catalysts Market on the Risear130405/Adobe StockThis morning in metals news, a recent report predicts the precious metal catalysts market will reach $19.4 billion by 2022, Reliance Steel and Aluminum Co. posted strong second-quarter numbers and   China's Ministry of Commerce says it is willing to work with the U.S. on global aluminum market issues.Benchmark Your Current Metal Price by Grade, Shape and Alloy: See How it Stacks UpPrecious metal catalysts will prove to be especially precious on the market in the near future, according to a report from Research and Markets.The report indicates the market will grow from $14.37 billion this year to $19.41 billion by 2022, at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 6.19%.Why is this metal sector set to become even more precious? Advances in automobile technology and pharmaceutical applications will see a rise in demand for this subset of metals, according to the research report."The newly developed emission standards demand additional improvements in catalyst technologies to successfully remove toxic substances from car exhausts, which will, in turn, drive the precious metal catalysts market growth through the automobile sector," the report states.Reliance Steel and Aluminum Co. -- the largest metals service center operator in North America,  headquartered in Los Angeles -- posted strong numbers for this year's second quarter.According to a report on the Nasdaq website, the company reported a bottom line of $103.1 million, ($1.40 per share), compared with $99.5 million, or $1.36 per share, for Q2 of 2016.The company's revenue total also rose in Q2 by 12.7% to $2.48 billion, up from $2.20 billion last year.Ever since announcing Section 232 investigations of steel and aluminum, the Trump administration and the U.S. Department of Commerce have made it clear that Chinese excess capacity is the primary focus (notwithstanding the fact that Chinese steel and aluminum represent relatively small portions of U.S. imports).On the heels of the U.S. International Trade Commission's (USITC) Section 332 report on competitive factors affecting U.S. aluminum, China's Ministry of Commerce suggested a global approach to tackling problems within the aluminum market, Reuters reported.According to the Reuters report, Ministry of Commerce spokesman Gao Feng did not agree with the assessment that the USITC report accused China of "sponsoring" its aluminum industry.Free Download: The July 2017 MMI ReportThe results of the aluminum investigation will likely not be coming for some time, as the steel report is expected to come first. However, June came and went without a steel 232 announcement. Plus, if President Donald Trump's comments earlier this week are any indication, steel trade policy doesn't seem to be a top priority at the moment, particularly as the health care debate continues to heat up.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service