This Morning in Metals European Steel Chiefs Say E.U. Needs to Act Against Rising ImportsAndrey Kuzmin/Adobe StackThis morning in metals news, European steel sector leaders are asking the E.U. for action in the face of rising imports, the U.S. says China is playing the "blame game" and U.S. Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross met with Mexico's Secretary of Economy Graciela Marquez Colin.Need buying strategies for steel? Request your two-month free trial of MetalMiner's OutlookAmid challenging times for the European steel sector, steel chiefs there are asking the E.U. for help.European steel sector leaders sent a letter to the E.U. asking it act, arguing the U.S.'s Section 232 steel tariff has resulted in an influx of diverted steel to the E.U., Reuters reported.According to the steel sector leaders, E.U. steel imports have doubled since 2013.The U.S. accused China of playing the so-called "blame game" in the two countries' ongoing trade talks.Despite auspicious signs, trade talks took a hit last month when President Donald Trump opted to raise tariffs on $200 billion in Chinese goods, after which China retaliated with tariffs on $60 billion in U.S. goods."The United States is disappointed that the Chinese have chosen in the 'White Paper' issued yesterday and recent public statements to pursue a blame game misrepresenting the nature and history of trade negotiations between the two countries," the Office of the United States Trade Representative said in a release. "To understand where the parties are and where they can go, it is necessary to understand the history that has led to the current impasse."Elsewhere, President Donald Trump recently threatened to impose an escalating tariff on all Mexican goods, beginning at 5%.U.S. Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross met with Mexico's Economy Secretary Graciela Marquez Colin to discuss the issue.MetalMiner's Annual Outlook provides 2019 buying strategies for carbon steel"Today, I met with Mexico's Minister of Economy, Graciela Marquez, to discuss bilateral trade and United States' upcoming plan to tariff Mexican goods at 5%," Ross said in a release. "We also discussed next steps for the U.S.-Mexico-Canada Agreement. I reiterated the President's message that Mexico needs to do more to help the U.S. address immigration across our shared border."Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service