This Morning in Metals Merkel Says E.U. Will Retaliate Against U.S. TariffsAndrey Kuzmin/Adobe StackThis morning in metals news, Germany announced the E.U. would also enact trade measures against U.S. steel and aluminum, Austrian company Voestalpine says there are delays in the tariff exclusion request process, and exemptions are looking increasingly unlikely for Europe.Need buying strategies for steel? Try two free months of MetalMiner's OutlookGerman Chancellor Angela Merkel said the E.U. plans to retaliate on the U.S. steel and aluminum tariffs with tariffs of its own, Reuters reported.The announcement capped a tense weekend, during which President Trump and Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau have sparred over trade and the president tweeted that he would not endorse the G7 communique.Austrian firm Voestalpine has yet to receive a response from the U.S. with respect to its Section 232 tariff exclusion requests, Reuters reported.According to the report, the firm said about one-third of its U.S. sales would be affected by the U.S. tariffs, which went into effect June 1 for the E.U. (after the expiration of a temporary exemption).European officials are still figuring out how to negotiate an exemption from the U.S. steel's and aluminum tariffs, as the bloc's temporary exemption from the tariffs expired and the U.S. decided to impose them ahead of the June 1 deadline.But, according to Platts, exemptions are looking increasingly unlikely.MetalMiner's Annual Outlook provides 2018 buying strategies for carbon steelEven so, some European steelmakers are still planning on shipping to the U.S., even with the tariffs eating into their margins.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service