This Morning in Metals Indian Crude Steel Production Up 6.2% in 2017Zerophoto/Adobe StockThis morning in metals news, Indian crude steel production jumped 6.2% in 2017, a Swiss steel firm was chosen to buy a troubled French steelmaker and Novelis announced that its aluminum will be supplied for the 2018 Jeep Wrangler.Need buying strategies for steel? Try two free months of MetalMiner's OutlookIndia saw its crude steel production jump 6.2% in 2017, according to the World Steel Association's recent report.Indian production hit 101.4 million tons, the Economic Times reported.A Strabourg court tapped Swiss firm Schmolz+Bickenbach to buy French steelmaker Ascometal, Reuters reported.The Swiss firm won out over a bid from Liberty House, according to the report. Ascometal filed for court protection in November, Reuters reported.Novelis announced today that its aluminum will be supplied for the new 2018 Jeep Wrangler."Novelis is proud to offer our unrivaled production capabilities and extensive technical expertise to one of the world's most iconic vehicles," said Marco Palmieri, SVP and president of Novelis North America, in a company release. "We work alongside our customers from program development to launch to meet the industry's evolving needs."Although aluminum is more expensive than steel, its lighter weight offers higher fuel economy. As such, several automakers, including Ford, have turned to aluminum for some of their newer models.Want to see an Aluminum Price forecast? Take a free trial!"Novelis aluminum offers a safe, sustainable and cost-effective way to lightweight vehicles," said Ganesh Panneer, vice president and general manager of Novelis North America's automotive division, in the company release. "Automotive aluminum applications result in better performance and agility, increased fuel economy and reduced carbon emissions."Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service