This Afternoon in Metals News DOC Rules on Carbon and Alloy Steel Wire RodThe U.S. Department of Commerce. qingwa/Adobe StockThis afternoon in metals news, the U.S. Department of Commerce issues an affirmative preliminary ruling on carbon and alloy steel wire rod, Kobe Steel loses a quality seal on its copper products and the U.S. International Trade Commission launched a Section 337 investigation of amorphous metal and amorphous metal cores.Benchmark Your Current Metal Price by Grade, Shape and Alloy: See How it Stacks UpThe U.S. Department of Commerce announced Wednesday evening that it had issued an affirmative preliminary ruling in its antidumping duty investigation of carbon and alloy steel wire rod.The investigation targets those products coming from Italy, Korea, South Africa, Spain, Turkey, Ukraine and the United Kingdom, with the DOC finding "that producers/exporters in these countries have sold carbon and alloy steel wire rod in the United States at less than fair value," according to a DOC release about the announcement.The latest setback for embattled Kobe Steel, Japan's third-largest steelmaker? The firm lost the quality seal for its copper products, the BBC reported.The Japanese company continues to struggle on the heels of a quality data falsification scandal.The U.S. International Trade Commission announced Wednesday that it launched a Section 337 investigation of amorphous metals and amorphous metal cores, which are used in things like electric transformers.Free Download: The October 2017 MMI ReportAccording to the USITC release regarding the announcement, the investigation is based on a complaint filed by Metglas, Inc., of Conway, SC, and Hitachi Metal, Ltd., of Tokyo, Japan, on Sept. 19, 2017.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service