This Morning in Metals EU to Hit Four Countries With Steel DutiesAndrey Kuzmin/Adobe StackThis morning in metals news, the EU is planning to impose heavy duties on steel from several countries, copper is down on gains by the U.S. dollar and June was a good month for U.S. service center  shipments of steel and aluminum.Participate in MetalMiner's Budgeting Workshop on July 26 to help set your 2018 metals budgetIn the world of trade measures, most eyes are on the U.S.'s Section 232 investigations into steel and aluminum imports. However, the U.S. is certainly not the only entity looking to protect its products.The European Union plans to impose heavy duties on hot-rolled coil steel from Russia, Ukraine, Iran and Brazil, a measure to counter what it sees as unfairly low prices, Reuters reported Wednesday.According to documents seen by Reuters, the EU plans on imposing duties of up to 33%. Just last month, the EU imposed duties of 35.9% on Chinese steel, according to the report.Copper had a strong start to the week, hitting its highest price since early May, but that optimism has started to temper.Prices of the metals trended downward Wednesday after the U.S. dollar rose, Reuters reported.The metal struggled to hold onto gains above $6,000, even with good news regarding Chinese demand, Danske Bank analyst Jens Pedersen told Reuters.U.S. steel shipments were up in June, according to a Metals Service Center Institute report released Tuesday.Shipments in June 2017 increased by 1.1% from June 2016. In addition, steel product inventories decreased 4.9% from June a year ago.Free Download: The July 2017 MMI ReportAluminum shipments were also up compared with the same month last year. Shipments of aluminum products increased by 10.3% from the same month in 2016. Inventories of aluminum products increased 0.2% from June a year ago.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service