This Morning in Metals Vale’s July Iron Ore Production Hits 9-Month Highnikitos77/Adobe StockThis morning in metals news, Vale's resumption of activities boosted its iron ore production to its highest level in nine months, ArcelorMittal released its second-quarter financial results and a U.S. judge blocked a planned copper project in Arizona.Need buying strategies for steel? Request your two-month free trial of MetalMiner's OutlookAfter Brazilian miner Vale resumed production at its largest mine in the Minas Gerais state, its iron ore production soared 16.6% in July from the previous month, Reuters reported.Earlier this year, a fatal tailings dam breach at Vale's mine in Brumadhinho impacted operations and helped send iron ore prices upward.Steelmaker ArcelorMittal reported Q2 2019 EBITDA of $1.6 billion and 1H 2019 EBITDA of $3.2 billion, which was down 42.6% on a year-over-year basis.Second-quarter shipments of steel and iron ore rose 4.8% and 6.1%, respectively, on a year-over-year basis."Given weak demand and high import levels in Europe, the Company has taken steps to align its European production levels to the current market demand," the steelmaker said. "As a result of previously announced European production curtailments, approximately 4.2Mt of annualized production curtailment is scheduled for 2H 2019."A U.S. judge blocked a copper project previously approved by the U.S. Forest Service, the Associated Press reported.Want to a see Cold Rolled price forecast? Get two monthly reports for free!The previously approved project included plans for a $1.9 billion mine in Arizona's Coronado National Forest.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service