This Morning in Metals UAW Members Ratify Labor Deal for AK Steel’s Coshocton WorksThis morning in metals news, members of the United Automobile Workers (UAW) union approved a new labor deal at AK Steel's Coshocton works, the International Aluminum Institute recently released aluminum production totals for August, and the U.S. and China held deputy-level trade talks late last week.Keep up to date on everything going on in the world of trade and tariffs via MetalMiner's Trade Resource Center.Members of the UAW union voted to ratify a new labor agreement for AK Steel's Coshocton works.The new 46-month agreement includes 300 hourly production and maintenance employees, AK Steel said in a statement.The new agreement runs until July 31, 2023.Global aluminum production totaled 5.41 million metric tons in August, according to the International Aluminum Institute, up from July's 5.40 million metric tons but down from 5.49 million metric tons in August 2018.Chinese production totaled an estimated 3.05 million metric tons in August, down from 3.06 million metric tons in July and 3.12 million metric tons in August 2018.Trade officials from the U.S. and China are set to meet early next month for a renewed round of trade talks on the heels of last week's deputy-level talks Sept. 19-20.Looking for metal price forecasting and data analysis in one easy-to-use platform? Inquire about MetalMiner Insights today!"On September 19 and 20, deputy-level negotiators from the United States and China met in Washington, D.C. to continue discussions aimed at improving the trade relationship between the two countries," the United States Trade Representative said in a prepared statement. "These discussions were productive, and the United States looks forward to welcoming a delegation from China for principal-level meetings in October."Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service