This Morning in Metals U.S. Steel Mills See 3.2% Jump in ShipmentsPavel Ignatov/Adobe StockThis morning in metals news, U.S. steel mills shipped 3.2% more steel in June 2018 than in June 2017, President Donald Trump announced the doubling of steel and aluminum tariff rates against Turkey, and Ford is feeling the effects of rising metals prices.Need buying strategies for steel? Try two free months of MetalMiner's OutlookU.S. steel mills shipped 7,988,026 net tons of steel in June, according to data released by the American Iron and Steel Institute (AISI).The total marks a 0.8% decrease from the previous month, but a 3.2% increase from June 2017.In the year to date, shipments have amounted to 47,304,057 net tons, a 4.1% increase compared with the first six months of 2017.While much of the focus has been on the deterioration of relations or escalation of tensions with China and even the E.U., in recent weeks the U.S.'s relationship with Turkey has taken a hit.President Donald Trump announced Friday that his administration will double the steel and aluminum tariffs on Turkey, bringing them to 50% and 20%, respectively.The relationship between the two countries has taken a hit in recent months following the U.S.'s imposition of Section 232 tariffs on steel and aluminum. In addition, last week the U.S. imposed sanctions on Turkish officials in relation to Turkey's detainment of American pastor Andrew Brunson on charges of espionage.Rising steel and aluminum prices are weighing on Ford's business, one Ford official said this week.Want to a see Cold Rolled price forecast? Get two monthly reports for free!Jim Farley, president of global markets, called the rising costs a "significant headwind," as quoted by Bloomberg, but added the automaker does not plan on passing on the added costs to consumers.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service