This Morning in Metals Tariff Exemption Deadline at Midnight for E.U., Othersgui yong nian/Adobe StockThis morning in metals news, the deadline for Section 232 tariffs exemptions for certain countries falls tonight at midnight, AK Steel's stock is up and the LME copper price tracked up Monday.Need buying strategies for steel? Try two free months of MetalMiner's OutlookSeveral countries negotiated temporary exemptions from the Trump administration's Section 232 tariffs on steel and aluminum (imposed last month). Canada, Mexico, Argentina, Australia, Brazil and the E.U. won temporary exemptions. South Korea also won a temporary exemption, which eventually became a long-term exemption after the progression of talks on the U.S.-Korea Free Trade Agreement (KORUS).The key term there is "short term" -- the deadline for the expiration of that exemption falls at midnight tonight.Naturally, the E.U. and others are scrambling to win long-term exemptions before the tariffs hit their metal exports."For the time being our priority is the ongoing high-level dialogue to secure a permanent exemption," said Cecilia Malmstrom, the E.U. trade commissioner, as quoted by the BBC.After AK Steel reported better-than-expected Q1 financials, its stock jumped 2.3%, according to a MarketWatch report.According to the report, the company expects market conditions to strengthen in Q2.LME copper and aluminum rose on Monday, Reuters reported, as the U.S. dollar fell back from a recent three-month high.Want to see an Aluminum Price forecast? Take a free trial!Despite light trade Monday, according to the report, LME copper rose 0.4%, while aluminum was up 0.1%.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service