This Morning in Metals Mexico Takes Aim at Steel, Farm ProductsDmitry/Adobe StockThis morning in metals news, Mexico hits back against the U.S.; tariffs aren't good for relationships with allies, the Aluminum Association's CEO says; and the E.U. could impose steel and aluminum safeguard measures as early as July.Need buying strategies for steel? Try two free months of MetalMiner's OutlookRetaliation on the heels of the U.S.'s decision to allow for the expiration of the temporary tariff exemptions for the E.U., Canada and Mexico is something that was expected.Mexico did just that, placing tariffs on steel products and farm products, according to an NPR report.According to the report, the steel products on the list are steel plates, bars and rods, and rolled steel.The Aluminum Association, the industry group representing American aluminum, has consistently expressed over the last year that any trade remedies vis-a-vis aluminum should focus primarily on Chinese overcapacity and should not harm market-economy trading partners.Heidi Brock, CEO of the Aluminum Association, told NPR's Rachel Martin that the tariffs could alienate the U.S. from its allies."In our view, illegally subsidized Chinese overcapacity is the problem," Brock told NPR. "Tariffs and quotas on market economies really, in our concern, would be ultimately alienating allies that we need to help us on that problem."Needless to say, based on rhetoric since June 1 from the E.U., Canada and Mexico, it seems like that alienation has already begun to take shape.Speaking of retaliation, the E.U. could be set to do just that in the near future.MetalMiner's Annual Outlook provides 2018 buying strategies for carbon steelE.U. Trade Commissioner Cecilia Malmstrom told Reuters that steel and aluminum safeguard measures could be instituted next month.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service