This Morning in Metals U.S. Steel Pulls Back on Some Proposals in Contract Talksbuhanovskiy/AdobeStockThis morning in metals news, U.S. Steel contract talks continue with its workers, aluminum prices continued to rise today after a big surge yesterday and U.S. steel import permit applications dropped significantly in September.Need buying strategies for steel? Request your two-month free trial of MetalMiner's OutlookAccording to a report by the Times of Northwest Indiana, U.S. Steel has pulled back from some proposals in its contract talks with USW that had the union on the brink of a strike.MetalMiner's Take: Buying organizations need to pay much closer attention to labor disputes and production disruptions with tariffs in play. Yesterday, Norsk Hydro shut down its Alunorte alumina refinery plant in Brazil due to an environmental dispute. The shutdown sent aluminum prices soaring by over 2% yesterday and prices remain supported today. Any potential strike at either ArcelorMittal or U.S. Steel could have a similar impact on steel prices.Aluminum prices surged yesterday, and continued to rise Thursday, MarketWatch reported.The price continues to rise on Thursday after news of Norsk Hydro's plans to close its Alunorte alumina refinery in Brazil.MetalMiner's Take: LME aluminum prices rose sharply yesterday, driven by demand concerns. News of a potential closure in the word's largest alumina refinery in Brazil helped the boost in aluminum prices, as this could create a larger shortage of the metal.LME aluminum prices have been trading sideways since July. LME aluminum prices increased again, showing a strong uptrend. Trading volumes also seem supportive of this uptrend.We will see LME aluminum prices continue to increase in the upcoming days, unless supply concerns ease.Steel import permit applications fell 7.6% last month compared to August totals, according to a recent American Iron and Steel Institute (AISI) report.The report, which cites the Department of Commerce's Steel Import Monitoring and Analysis data, says applications for September totaled 2,739,000 net tons.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service