This Morning in Metals DOC Makes CVD Determinations on Fabricated Structural SteelThe U.S. Department of Commerce. qingwa/Adobe StockThis morning in metals news, the U.S. Department of Commerce made affirmative determinations in two of three countervailing duty investigations regarding fabricated structural steel, Chinese copper smelters inked deals with Chile's Antofagasta and India is investigating dumping claims vis-a-vis flat-rolled steel imports from 15 countries.Need buying strategies for steel? Request your two-month free trial of MetalMiner's OutlookThe Department of Commerce issued affirmative determinations in its countervailing duty probes of fabricated structural steel imports from China and Mexico.The DOC found imports of the products from China and Mexico benefited from countervailable subsidies at rates ranging from 30.30-177.43% and 0.01 (de minimis)-74.01%, respectively.Meanwhile, the DOC made a negative determination vis-a-vis Canada, finding that exporters received countervailable subsidies at de minimis levels ranging from 0.12-0.45%.China's top two copper smelters have inked concentrate supply deals with Chilean miner Antofagasta, Reuters reported.According to the report, Jiangxi Copper Co and Tongling Nonferrous Metals Group inked the contracts earlier than usual on account of tightness in the copper concentrate market.India will investigate dumping claims with respect to imports of flat-rolled steel from 15 countries, including China, the U.S. and Japan, the Economic Times reported.Want to a see Cold Rolled price forecast? Get two monthly reports for free!Domestic entities Indian Stainless Steel Development Association, Jindal Stainless, Jindal Stainless (Hisar) and Jindal Stainless Steelway filed petitions with India's Directorate General of Trade Remedies (DGTR) alleging dumping of flat-rolled steel from the 15 countries.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service