This Morning in Metals U.S. Steel Imports Down 7.8% Through Aprilgui yong nian/Adobe StockThis morning in metals, U.S. imports of foreign steel have dropped 7.8% through the first four months of the year, the Department of Commerce announced changes to its countervailing duty process and the copper price is on its way to its sixth consecutive weekly drop.Need buying strategies for steel? Request your two-month free trial of MetalMiner's OutlookU.S. imports of steel for the year through April dropped 7.8%, according to the American Iron and Steel Institute (AISI).Total imports for the first four months of the year reached 11.5 million tons. In April, however, imports reached 3.3 million tons, up 45.5% from the previous month.The U.S. Department of Commerce announced changes to its countervailing duty process with respect to "countries that act to undervalue their currency relative to the dollar.""This change puts foreign exporters on notice that the Department of Commerce can countervail currency subsidies that harm U.S. industries," Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross said in a prepared statement. "Foreign nations would no longer be able to use currency policies to the disadvantage of American workers and businesses. This proposed rulemaking is a step toward implementing President Trump's campaign promise to address unfair currency practices by our trading partners."The copper price has been on a steady decline in recent months, in part weighed down by trade tensions between the U.S. and China.According to Reuters, the LME copper price is headed for its sixth consecutive week of losses.MetalMiner's Annual Outlook provides 2019 buying strategies for carbon steelEarlier this month, trade talks took a hit when President Donald Trump opted to raise tariffs on $200 billion in Chinese goods, after which China retaliated with tariffs on $60 billion in U.S. goods.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service