This Morning in Metals Copper Drops But Still Sits Near 11-Week HighTTstudio/Adobe StockThis morning in metals news: copper slides slightly but is still near its recent 11-week high; shares of a U.S.-based aluminum company fell after a Reuters report that the company knowingly supplied flammable panels for use in Grenfell Tower and the European Union is considering retaliatory measures if the U.S. places tariffs on steel and aluminum imports.Copper fell on Monday but still hung around its previous 11-week high, Reuters reported, hanging tough amid good news about Chinese demand and potential supply shortages.Benchmark Your Current Metal Price by Grade, Shape and Alloy: See How it Stacks UpOn Friday, LME copper reached its highest price since April 7. According to a report cited by Reuters, a seasonal rise in electricity usage in China is likely to contribute to a rise in demand for the metal.On the heels of the deadly June 14 fire at Grenfell Tower in London, metal company Arconic's shares are falling after a report indicated the company knowingly provided flammable panels for use in the tower.According to a Reuters report, emails sent to and from an Arconic sales manager include questions about why the company provided combustible cladding material for use in the building of the tower.Arconic argued that while it knew the panels would be used for construction of the tower, it was not its role to decide what materials are or aren't compliant with building codes, the Reuters report says.Shares of Arconic dropped 6% early Monday, CNBC reported.While China is the primary target of the U.S.'s Section 232 investigations into steel and aluminum imports, other countries are preparing for the effects of potential U.S. tariffs.EU nations are among those concerned about a trade policy readjustment from the Trump administration.Cecilia Malmstrom, EU trade commissioner, said the bloc was "making preparations" to respond to the imposition of U.S. tariffs, USA Today reported. She added U.S. tariffs would "unjustifiably hit" EU nations.The Trump administration launched the investigations in April. The U.S. Department of Commerce held public hearings on the subjects of steel and aluminum imports May 24 and June 22, respectively.Chinese excess capacity has been the main talking point for U.S. producers, who argue that China is flooding the market with the metals and leading to depression of prices and, as a result, job losses and plant closures in the U.S.Free Download: The June 2017 MMI ReportThe trade commissioner also said the EU would study any actions by the Trump administration to determine if they are in line with World Trade Association rules.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service