This Morning in Metals Manufacturing employment falls; unemployment steady at 3.5%byrdyak/Adobe StockThis morning in metals news, the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics released monthly jobs data Friday, Liberty Steel Group announced it is the preferred buyer for Bayou Steel Group and U.S. November steel shipments dropped 3.1%.Looking for metal price forecasting and data analysis in one easy-to-use platform? Inquire about MetalMiner Insights today!According to the latest jobs report from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the U.S. unemployment rate held steady at 3.5% in December.In the manufacturing sector, employment fell by 12,000 jobs in December, while the sector was up 46,000 jobs in 2019 overall. Meanwhile, the sector added 264,000 jobs in 2018.Liberty Steel Group, part of steel tycoon Sanjeev Gupta's GFG Alliance, has emerged as the preferred buyer for Louisiana's Bayou Steel Group, which closed abruptly in October 2019.According to Liberty, the company has bid $28 million for the steel firm based in LaPlace, Louisiana."Subject to completion of a $28 million deal to acquire the business, Liberty has developed a plan to upgrade and modernise Bayou's idled steel mill in LaPlace, Louisiana, with a view to re-starting its recycling operations in the second half of 2020 and steel making operations by 2021," Liberty said in a release. "The transaction is expected to close on January 31, 2020."U.S. steel mills shipped 7.67 million tons of steel in November, which marked a 3.1% decline from October shipment levels, according to the American Iron and Steel Institute (AISI).Keep up to date on everything going on in the world of trade and tariffs via MetalMiner's Trade Resource Center.Through the first 11 months of 2019, U.S. steel shipments reached 88.16 million tons, up 0.8% on a year-over-year basis.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service