This Morning in Metals ArcelorMittal CEO Wants E.U. to do More to Combat U.S. TariffsAndrey Kuzmin/Adobe Stack2This morning in metals news, ArcelorMittal's CEO urged the E.U. to do more to combat the effects of the U.S.'s Section 232 steel tariff, April steel shipments fell 1.4% and China's Ministry of Commerce said the U.S. is not being taken advantage of on trade.Need buying strategies for steel? Request your two-month free trial of MetalMiner's OutlookThe E.U. imposed steel safeguards earlier this year, but ArcelorMittal CEO Lakshmi Mittal think they haven't been enough.The safeguards were imposed to combat rising imports into the E.U., which came about as a result of diverted supply from the U.S. (on the heels of its Section 232 tariffs on steel and aluminum).However, Mittal told a German newspaper the safeguards haven't been effective, Reuters reported.U.S. steel shipments in April fell 1.4% from the previous month, according to the American Iron and Steel Institute (AISI).April shipments reached 8.21 million net tons, down from 8.33 million net tons in March. However, shipments through the first four months of the year were up 3.5% compared with the same period last year.A frequent talking point used by President Donald Trump is the concept that other countries are taking advantage of the U.S. when it comes to trade.China's Ministry of Commerce recently released a report, titled "US Gains from the China-US Trade and Economic Cooperation," outlining the ways in which it argues the U.S. benefits from the two countries' trade relationship.MetalMiner's Annual Outlook provides 2019 buying strategies for carbon steel"The trade deficit with China results from both artificially-imposed restrictions, such as export control, and market forces," the Ministry of Commerce said in a release. "Multiple factors are at play, including industrial competitiveness, economic structure, trade policies, the position of the US dollar as reserve currency, etc. The US has not been taken advantage of."Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service