This Morning in Metals China’s December Exports to the U.S. FallZerophoto/Adobe StockThis morning in metals news, exports from China to the U.S. took a dive in December, India will drive global steel demand in the coming years and Serbia has requested an exemption from the E.U.'s imminent quotas on steel imports.Need buying strategies for steel? Request your two-month free trial of MetalMiner's OutlookWhile the U.S. and China have kickstarted the new year with trade talks that have some feeling optimistic of a resolution, U.S. tariffs on $250 billion worth of Chinese imports appear to have had an effect on trade flows last month.According to a report by the Associated Press, China's exports to the U.S. fell in December, down 3.5% compared with December 2017.For the year as a whole, however, China's exports to the U.S. in 2018 were up 11.3%, according to the report.India last year overtook Japan as the No. 2 steel producer in the world, according to data from the World Steel Association last month.And per a recent post by Adam Szewczyk, head of data management for the World Steel Association, Indian steel demand will likely continue to drive production growth."According to worldsteel's October Short Range Outlook, it is likely that India will also become #2 in steel use by the end of 2019 as its steel demand is expected to grow by 7.3%," Szewczyk wrote."The Indian steel industry, after recovering from the twin shocks of demonetisation and the Goods and Services Tax (GST) reform, is one of the few bright spots for the world's steel industry in what is forecasted to be a lower growth era."With E.U. member states set to vote on new steel quotas Wednesday -- in response to the U.S.'s implementation of a 25% steel tariff last year, pursuant to Section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962 -- one country has already asked for an exemption.MetalMiner's Annual Outlook provides 2019 buying strategies for carbon steelAccording to a Reuters report, Serbia, home to the Chinese-owned Zelezara Smederevo mill, has asked for an exemption from the quotas, which is expected to be approved by E.U. member states and will cover 26 product categories.If approved, the safeguard measures would replace provisional measures passed in July 2018.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service