This Afternoon in Metals U.S. Tariffs on China Go Into EffectEzio Gutzemberg/Adobe StockThis afternoon in metals news, the first batch of $34 billion in U.S. tariffs on Chinese goods went into effect Friday, China looks to build its relationship with Europe  amid increasing trade tension with the U.S. and the United States Trade Representative released the guidelines for the exclusion application process regarding Section 301 tariffs.Need buying strategies for steel? Try two free months of MetalMiner's OutlookThe latest chapter of the U.S.-China unfolded Friday, as the first piece of the previously announced $60 billion in tariffs on Chinese goods went into effect (with China responding in kind).Reuters reported Friday that some U.S. goods had started to come through customs, and that customs officials in Shanghai Monday were collecting tariffs on such U.S. goods as fruits and wine.Relations between the U.S. and China have chilled, to say the least, which is why the latter is turning to Europe.CNBC reported Prime Minister Li Keqiang met with European leaders over the weekend, touting a willingness to open China's economy to the world. In addition, other meetings with European leaders are on the docket in the near future, including an E.U.-China summit in Beijing next week, according to the report.Just as with Section 232, there will be parties in the U.S. looking to gain exclusions from the tariffs imposed on a wide variety of Chinese goods.On Friday, the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative published guidelines for parties looking to apply for exclusions from the tariffs.MetalMiner's Annual Outlook provides 2018 buying strategies for carbon steelAccording to the USTR announcement, the public now has a 90-day period during which to file exclusion requests, making for an Oct. 9 deadline.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service