This Morning in Metals U.S. Steel Announces Joint Venture Partnership with Big River Steelfaithie/Adobe StockThis morning in metals news, U.S. Steel announced a new joint venture with Big River Steel, the E.U.-U.S. fight over aircraft subsidies continues and Chile's copper output increased in August.Keep up to date on everything going on in the world of trade and tariffs via MetalMiner's Trade Resource Center.U.S. Steel announced Tuesday it will purchase a 49.9% ownership interest in the Arkansas-based Big River Steel, a purchase coming with a $700 million price tag."Our new partnership with Big River is designed to accelerate our strategy to offer our customers the 'best of both' by bringing together the capabilities of integrated and mini mill steel production," U.S. Steel President and CEO David B. Burritt said. "Big River operates the most advanced, state-of-the-art and sustainable mill in North America, and our investment would ultimately strengthen our competitive positioning in highly strategic steel-end markets, creating an unmatched value proposition for our stakeholders."U.S. Steel said the acquisition allows it to reshape its footprint in its flat-rolled segment "to create a more nimble, agile and customer-focused organization with new presence to serve growing U.S. and Mexico markets."According to Phil Hogan, who will soon succeed Cecilia Malmstrom as E.U. trade commissioner, the E.U. "has to stand up for itself" in the ongoing battle with the U.S. over aircraft subsidies, CNBC reported.The ongoing saga between the U.S. and the E.U. over aircraft subsidies to Boeing and Airbus, respectively, has dragged on for well over a decade and could soon be coming to a financial conclusion after moving through the notoriously slow-moving World Trade Organization (WTO) dispute settlement system.The United States Trade Representative has proposed $11 billion in tariffs in retaliation against the E.U.'s subsidization of Airbus.A World Trade Organization (WTO) ruling is expected soon regarding the scope of tariffs the U.S. will be permitted to apply.While the International Copper Study Group recently reported global copper production was down through the first half of the year, production in No. 1. producer Chile increased in August, Reuters reported.Looking for metal price forecasting and data analysis in one easy-to-use platform? Inquire about MetalMiner Insights today!According to Reuters, Chile's copper production surged 11% year over year in August.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service