This Morning in Metals U.S. June Steel Imports Fall to 1.8M Metric Tonsgui yong nian/Adobe StockThis morning in metals news, June steel imports in the U.S. declined, U.S.-China trade talks are expected to resume after falling apart in May and copper prices picked up Wednesday.Need buying strategies for steel? Request your two-month free trial of MetalMiner's OutlookJune steel imports in the U.S. fell to 1.8 million metric tons, down from 1.9 million metric tons in May, the U.S. Census Bureau reported Wednesday.U.S. imports from Korea and Brazil fell, while increases occurred from Canada, Russia and Germany, according to the Census Bureau report. (In May, the Trump administration removed its Section 232 steel and aluminum tariffs vis-a-vis Canada and Mexico.)The U.S. and China's long-running trade talks fell apart in May, but they appear to be set to pick back up next week.U.S. trade negotiators will head to Beijing for the next round of talks sometime in the next week, CNBC reported.Talks fell apart in May, as the U.S. accused China of reneging on previous commitments; ultimately, President Donald Trump increased tariffs on a previously announced $200 billion list of Chinese goods.News of the resumption of trade talks between the world's two largest economies spurred upward movement in the copper price.MetalMiner's Annual Outlook provides 2019 buying strategies for carbon steelLME copper picked up 0.5% to reach $6,000 per ton, Reuters reported.Gulf Importers Seeking Vietnam Pre-Painted Flat Steel (PPGI PPGL) after definitive safeguard measure on GCC imports of Pre-Painted Flat Steel on 25/04/2018.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service