This Morning in Metals USW, U.S. Steel Continue Contract Talksgui yong nian/Adobe StockThis morning in metals news, the United Steelworkers union is reportedly not happy with U.S. Steel's latest contract proposal, Vice President Mike Pence touts a steel resurgence in Michigan and South Korean firms seek an exemption from the E.U. steel safeguards.Need buying strategies for steel? Request your two-month free trial of MetalMiner's OutlookContract talks are ongoing between U.S. Steel and the union representing its workers, United Steelworkers. However, according to a report by the Times of Northwest Indiana, the firm's latest proposal wasn't met positively by the union.In a visit to a steel processing facility in Grand Rapids, Michigan, Vice President Mike Pence touted the administration's steel tariff and its role in aiding the steel industry, the Detroit News reported."Get ready to get even busier," the vice president told company officials and hard-hat workers during a speech at the steel processing facility, according to the report.South Korean steel producers are looking to win exemptions on provisional steel safeguards imposed by Europe, S&P Global Platts reported.MetalMiner's Annual Outlook provides 2018 buying strategies for carbon steelSteel product exports from South Korea into Europe amount to 3.24 million mt per year, according to the report.Nucor halted operations at two of its mills in the Carolinas ahead of the expected impact of Hurricane Florence on Thursday, according to an Argus report.The plants in question are Nucor's Berkeley, South Carolina sheet mill and its Hertford, North Carolina plate mill.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service