This Morning in Metals China Imports Less Copper in FebruaryZerophoto/Adobe StockThis morning in metals news, China's copper imports fell in February, U.S. Steel won an award sponsored by the Department of Energy and General Motors rolled out its last Chevy Cruze this week.Need buying strategies for steel? Request your two-month free trial of MetalMiner's OutlookChina's February copper imports fell to their lowest level in 11 months, Reuters reported, while copper concentrate imports rose to an all-time high.Meanwhile, China's aluminum exports fell 37.9% in February compared to the previous month, according to the report.U.S. Steel won an award from the High-Performance Computing for Manufacturing Program sponsored by the Department of Energy, which will allow the company to "expand the company's manufacturing capabilities for advanced high-strength steel.""The goal of the winning project, drafted by researchers Evgueni Nikitenko and Susan Farjami at U. S. Steel's Research and Technology Center in Munhall, Pa., is to enhance the company's hot strip mill model used in creating AHSS," a U.S. Steel release stated. "This type of steel is used by automakers to manufacture economically lightweight vehicles to meet increasing fuel efficiency requirements while maintaining exceptionally high safety standards."According to the release, the project research will take place at the Lawrence Livermore National Lab, which will receive $300,000 to collaborate with U.S. Steel.Per its announcement late last year, General Motors idled its Lordtown, Ohio assembly plant earlier this week, where the automaker rolled out its last Chevy Cruze vehicle.Want to see an Aluminum Price forecast? Take a free trial!According to NBC News, the closure will lead to the elimination of nearly 1,700 hourly jobs by the end of the month.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service