This Morning in Metals MetalMiner Webinar to Explore Manufacturing Talent Gapbyrdyak/Adobe StockThis morning in metals news, an upcoming MetalMiner webinar will explore the challenges manufacturers face in talent acquisition, the nickel price continues to fall after a hot summer and miner BHP released its production results for the quarter ending Sept. 30.Keep up to date on everything going on in the world of trade and tariffs via MetalMiner's Trade Resource Center.If you haven't already done so, there's still time to sign up for MetalMiner's free Oct. 23 webinar, "The War For Contractor Talent: How Manufacturers Can Find the Workers They Need (and Fast)."The webinar is free to attend, but registration is required.MetalMiner Executive Editor Lisa Reisman will be joined by Matt Runfola, founder of the Chicago Industrial Arts and Design Center, and Brett Armstrong, director of business development at Avetta.It was a hot summer for nickel, which surged from below $12,000 per ton in June to nearly $18,500 per ton in early September, according to MetalMiner IndX data.However, the nickel price has started to come back down to earth over the last six weeks.The three-month LME nickel price reached $16,260/mt as of Friday, down 4.07% on a month-over-month basis.Miner BHP released its quarterly production results for the quarter ending Sept. 30, showing copper production fell 3% from the previous quarter due to planned maintenance.Looking for metal price forecasting and data analysis in one easy-to-use platform? Inquire about MetalMiner Insights today!Meanwhile, metallurgical coal and energy coal production fell 21% and 24%, respectively."We delivered a solid start to the 2020 financial year through ongoing strong operational performance across our portfolio," BHP CEO Andrew Mackenzie said. "While Group production for the quarter decreased slightly due to the expected impacts of planned maintenance and natural field decline in Petroleum, guidance remains unchanged and we are on track to deliver slightly higher volumes than last financial year. The South Flank iron ore project is 50 per cent complete, with all our major projects on schedule and budget. We achieved further encouraging exploration results in Petroleum and at the Oak Dam copper prospect."Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service