This Morning in Metals ATI’s Section 232 Steel Tariff Exemption Request DeniedThe U.S. Department of Commerce. qingwa/Adobe StockThis morning in metals news, a tariff exemption request by Allegheny Technologies, Inc., has been denied, miner Anglo-American saw its copper production rise in the first quarter and iron ore miners in the Indian state of Karnataka are stuck with millions of tons of unsold iron ore inventory.Need buying strategies for steel? Request your two-month free trial of MetalMiner's OutlookATI Exemption Request DeniedThe Trump administration last year imposed Section 232 tariffs on imported steel and aluminum, but allowed domestic firms to apply for exemptions if a certain product is not made domestically in the quality or quantity needed.Thousands of exclusion requests have been approved to date. According to QuantGov, 21,464 steel exclusion requests had been approved as of March 18, 2019.A request by Allegheny Technologies, Inc., however, was denied, the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette reported.ATI released a statement expressing disappointment with the ruling."While we are disappointed that the U.S. Department of Commerce denied the JV's Section 232 tariff exclusion request, it does not change our strategy of returning ATI's Flat Roll Products segment to sustained profitability," said Robert S. Wetherbee, ATI president and CEO. "Although we believe the unique status of the North American stainless steel industry warranted approval of our exclusion, we are committed to meeting our customers' needs and delivering value to our shareholders. We will work with our joint venture partner to determine our next steps."Miner Anglo-American announced its Q1 copper production rose 4% to 161,100 tons, Reuters reported.The firm's total output, however, fell 6% during the first quarter.Miners in the southwestern Indian state of Karnataka are stuck with 6.5 million tons of unsold iron ore, the Business Standard reported.MetalMiner's Annual Outlook provides 2019 buying strategies for carbon steelAccording to the report, unsold ore accounts for more than 20% of iron ore production during fiscal year 2019.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service