This Morning in Metals Platinum Rebound Imminent, Says Northam CEOconcept w/Adobe StockThis morning in metals news, the CEO of Northam Platinum indicated the platinum price is due for upward movement, raw steel production in the U.S. last week was up significantly and Chinese aluminum production was down during October.Benchmark Your Current Metal Price by Grade, Shape and Alloy: See How it Stacks UpAs we've noted here in recent weeks, palladium has outdone platinum of late -- normally, it's the other way around.But according to Northam Platinum CEO Paul Dunne, platinum should be on its way back up."We have said for a number of years from various public platforms that you would see a phased recovery with palladium running first, then rhodium, and finally platinum," Dunne said in a report by Mining MX. "Palladium has been off to the races over the past year and the rhodium price has now started to move in recent months rising around 50%."According to data from the American Iron and Steel Institute (AISI), U.S. raw steel production was up 9.3% for the week ending Nov. 11 compared with the same week last year.Domestic raw steel production was 1,739,000 net tons for that week, with a capability utilization rate of 74.6%. Production for the week ending Nov. 11 was up 1.4% from the previous week, when production was 1,715,000 net tons and the rate of capability utilization was 73.6 percent.
Primary aluminum production in China fell 2.3% in October from the previous month, according to a Reuters report citing government data.Free Download: The November 2017 MMI ReportAccording to the report, factors contributing to the drop include high costs and the closure of illegal capacity.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service