This Morning in Metals Rio Tinto Hails ‘Significant Milestone’ at Oyu TolgoiTTstudio/Adobe StockThis morning in metals news, miner Rio Tinto has advanced work on its Oyu Tolgoi copper and gold mine project, the U.S. is reportedly considering rolling back some tariffs against China, and Novelis announced its quarterly financial results.Keep up to date on everything going on in the world of trade and tariffs via MetalMiner's Trade Resource Center.Earlier this year, MetalMiner's Stuart Burns weighed in on delays at Rio Tinto's massive Oyu Tolgoi project in Mongolia, citing possible delays of 16-30 months.This week, however, the miner offered positive news, announcing the completion of a portion of the project."Rio Tinto has achieved a significant milestone at the Oyu Tolgoi mine in Mongolia with the completion of Shaft 2, which enables the acceleration of work on the underground development," the miner said. "Shaft 2, a 10 metre diameter shaft sunk to approximately 1.3 kilometres below the surface, has now entered into the final stages of commissioning."This is a critical piece of infrastructure and will enable a step change in terms of delivering the underground mine. Shaft 2 can carry 300 people per cage cycle versus a maximum of 60 people per cage cycle through Shaft 1. The 48 tonne capacity cage can now be used to support logistics, transporting supplies and components for development of the mine."Among other issues, tariffs remain at the center of the trade dispute between the U.S. and China.China has asked the U.S. to drop tariffs in exchange for an initial deal. In that vein, according to several media reports, the U.S. is considering rolling back approximately $112 billion worth in tariffs on Chinese goods toward a first-phase trade deal.For the second quarter of Novelis' fiscal year 2020, the firm reported net income of $160 million, marking a 31% year-over-year increase.Adjusted EBITDA reached $374 million, up 5% year over year.In addition, Novelis' acquisition of Aleris Corporation is expected to close in the coming months.Keep up to date on everything going on in the world of trade and tariffs via MetalMiner's Trade Resource Center."On July 26, 2018, Novelis announced it signed a definitive agreement to acquire Aleris Corporation," the company said. "Having received conditional approval in the European Union, as well as a clear path forward for approval in the U.S., Novelis continues to work closely with the Chinese State Administration for Market Regulation to receive its approval. The company expects to close the transaction by January 21, 2020, the outside date under the merger agreement."Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service