This Morning in Metals Cobalt, Lithium Could Be in For More Price VolatilityCobalt and lithium have big roles in the burgeoning electric-vehicle market, but they're still subject to price volatility. scharfsinn86/Adobe StockThis morning in metals news, demand for cobalt and lithium will only grow with the electric car industry, but price ups and downs are likely in the offing, too; London copper took a dip after the U.S. Federal Reserve's interest rate hike announcement Wednesday; and the U.S. coal industry, in a world with less demand for coal as an energy product, might have to get creative. One writer suggests mining for coal -- not for coal itself, but for rare-earth metals contained within it.One thing is certain: the electric-car industry is growing rapidly.Benchmark Your Current Metal Price by Grade, Shape and Alloy: See How it Stacks UpAccording to a Reuters story Thursday by Andy Home, the number of electric cars on roads worldwide doubled last year to 2 million -- but only accounted for 0.2% of the global total. However, estimates indicate that number will grow to 3% as soon as 2021 and 14% in 2025.With that growth comes a need for certain kinds of metals, like cobalt and lithium.But with a still relatively young electric-vehicle industry, what will demand for these metals look like in the near future?Cobalt and lithium, for example, are on the "front-line" of the "green transport revolution, Home writes. But that means, to an extent, being subject to the whims of an industry in its early stages.Large price hikes in lithium late last year and early this year have leveled off. Home added there could be further price volatility, as producers, analysts and traders try to construct consensus demand models.Copper on the London Metal Exchange (LME) dropped to a one-week low Thursday, on the heels of the U.S. Federal Reserve's decision to hike interest rates for the second time this year, Reuters reported.Copper fell to $5,462 per ton, according to the report.Financial uncertainty in the U.S. and a slowing of the Chinese economy will put selling pressure on metals, according to a Kingdom Futures report quoted by Reuters.Global coal production has declined each of the last three years. With a decline in demand, coal-mining operations have to adapt to a world increasingly powered by green energy.The solution for some might be mining for coal, not for coal's energy-producing properties, but for the rare-earth metals found within them, according to an article Thursday in Quartz. Per the article, China currently produces 90% of the world's rare-earth metals.It's an interesting idea, even if author Akshat Rathi writes that his three ideas for extraction of rare-earth metals from coal are currently not economically feasible.Free Download: The June 2017 MMI ReportBut, as mentioned in yesterday's This Morning in Metals post, producers have to adapt with the times. Whether we're talking about copper producers looking for new markets for their copper or coal-mining operations mining for rare-earth metals found within coal, producers have to adjust or risk being left behind.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service