This Morning in Metals Norsk Hydro Plans Alunorte RestartAlexander Chudaev/Adobe StockThis morning in metals news, Norsk Hydro plans to restart its Alunorte alumina refinery, Shanghai steel rebar prices fell and Turkey plans to impose steel import quotas.Need buying strategies for steel? Request your two-month free trial of MetalMiner's OutlookAfter surging last week on news of Norsk Hydro's shutdown of its Alunorte alumina refinery, aluminum prices have come back down on the latest Alunorte.According to Reuters, Norsk Hydro plans to restart the refinery after having acquired a permit to use technology that would extend the life of the refinery's disposal area.MetalMiner's Take: The news of Norsk Hydro planning to restart production in Alunorte drove LME aluminum back to its $1,970-$2,170/mt band. Aluminum prices decreased on Monday for the second consecutive day as supply concern eases. LME aluminum prices increased sharply last Wednesday, driven by potential supply concerns. The recent aluminum peak was a reaction of alumina supply concerns. However, tightness in the aluminum market may support prices in the long term.Shanghai steel rebar prices fell Monday on concerns of rising inventories, Reuters reported.In response to what it says has been a surge in imports, Turkey plans to impose an additional 25% duty on imports exceeding planned quotas, according to a Reuters report.For more efficient carbon steel buying strategies, take a free trial of MetalMiner's Monthly Outlook!In a World Trade Organization (WTO) filing, Turkey argued duties imposed by the U.S. and other countries have led to steel supplies being diverted to Turkey.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service