This Morning in Metals U.S. Steel Production Up 3% Year-Over-Yeargui yong nian/Adobe StockThis morning in metals news, production of raw steel in the U.S. is up for the year, President Donald Trump reportedly rejected a Chinese proposal to cut its steel excess capacity and copper approached a three-year high.Benchmark Your Current Metal Price by Grade, Shape and Alloy: See How it Stacks UpAccording to data released by the American Iron and Steel Institute on Monday, U.S. raw steel production for the week ending Aug. 26 was down 1.3% from the previous week.However, compared to the same week in 2016, production was up 5.1%.In the year to date, production through Aug. 26 amounted to 59,153,000 net tons, up 3% from the 57,416,000 net tons during the same period last year.Given how much ink has been spilled and time spent talking about Chinese excess steel capacity and its effect on the global market, one would think any proposals from China aimed at cutting capacity would be welcomed.Apparently not.According to reporting from the Financial Times, President Trump rejected a Chinese proposal to cut its excess capacity. China proposed cutting 150 million tons by 2022, but Trump instead directed advisors to find ways to impose tariffs on imports, according to the report.As has been discussed ad nauseam, China's overcapacity has been the focal point of the Trump administration's Section 232 investigations into steel and aluminum imports.Copper rose nearly to a three-hear high Tuesday on falling inventories and a dropping dollar, Reuters reported.The metal reached $6,825 per ton, its highest since October 2014, according to the report.Free Download: The August 2017 MMI ReportYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service