This Morning in Metals Steel Dynamics Announces New Flat-Rolled Steel Mill Sitebuhanovskiy/AdobeStockThis morning in metals news, Steel Dynamics announced the site of a planned new flat-rolled steel mill, Norsk Hydro says aluminum demand is falling in Germany and Canadian aluminum producers are enjoying boosted profits on the heels of the removal of the U.S.'s Section 232 tariffs.Need buying strategies for steel? Request your two-month free trial of MetalMiner's OutlookSinton, Texas, will be the home of Steel Dynamics' new flat-rolled steel mill, the company announced Monday."Our planned new EAF flat roll steel mill will be the most technologically advanced facility existing today," President and CEO Mark D. Millett said. "Our team has selected a suite of technologies based on our proven history of success, that should allow us to achieve steel grades previously out of reach to thin-slab casting technology, while sustaining the low-energy and low-Carbon footprint that is at the core of our steelmaking operations. Based on casting capability of up to 84 inches wide and up to a 5.5-inch cast thickness, it will be the world's largest thin-slab facility."Aluminum producer Norsk Hydro said aluminum demand in Germany is declining amid slowdowns in the country's automotive and construction sectors.Norsk Hydro CFO Eivind Kallevik told CNBC Tuesday that the performance of the automotive and construction sectors in Germany has led to lower aluminum demand.In other aluminum news, Canadian aluminum operations are enjoying higher profits since the U.S. removed its Section 232 tariffs vis-a-vis imports from the country (and Mexico).Want to see an Aluminum Price forecast? Take a free trial!According to Reuters, among those producers with Canadian operations reaping the benefits are Rio Tinto and Alcoa. Alcoa CFO William Oplinger last week said the company expects an annual benefit of approximately $200 million as a result of the removal of the tariffs.On May 25, 2016, US flat steel importers faced affirmative final determinations in the antidumping duty (AD) and countervailing duty (CVD) investigations of imports of corrosion-resistant steel products (CORE) from China, India, Italy, Korea; its affirmative final determination in the AD investigation of imports of CORE from Taiwan; and its negative final determination in the CVD investigation of imports of CORE from Taiwan.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service