This Morning in Metals DOC Initiates AD, CVD Probes of Large Welded Pipe From 6 CountriesThe U.S. Department of Commerce. qingwa/Adobe StockThis morning in metals news, the U.S. Department of Commerce kicks off a new anti-dumping and countervailing duty probe, China urges the U.S. to exercise restraint when it comes to tariffs on steel imports and President Trump plans to meet with lawmakers to discuss tariffs on metals.Need buying strategies for steel? Try two free months of MetalMiner's OutlookThe Department of Commerce today announced the initiation of an anti-dumping and countervailing duty investigation of large diameter welded pipe from Canada, Greece, China, India, Korea and Turkey."With an 81 percent increase in trade cases initiated since President Trump took office, this Administration has made it clear that we will vigorously administer antidumping and countervailing duty laws," Secretary of Commerce Wilbur Ross said in a release. "When initiating a trade investigation, the Department of Commerce begins an open and transparent process that allows American companies and workers to gain relief from the market-distorting effects of injurious dumping and subsidization of imports."Chinese official on Tuesday urged the U.S. to show restraint when it comes to tariffs on steel, according to a Reuters report.The official, Wang Hejun, who heads the Chinese Ministry of Commerce's Trade Remedy and Investigation Bureau, said that protectionism would lead to a "vicious circle" of trade actions, according to the report.President Trump today is meeting with lawmakers to discuss potential tariffs on steel and aluminum imports and other trade issues, according to Bloomberg.MetalMiner's Annual Outlook provides 2018 buying strategies for carbon steelSecretary of Commerce Wilbur Ross sent Trump his Section 232 recommendations for steel and aluminum last month. As of receipt of the reports, the president has 90 days to decide what to do.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service