ThyssenKruppNerves of steelTHE biggest steelmaker in Germany, ThyssenKrupp, has come to epitomise the good, the bad and--in particular--the ugly of Deutschland AG. In July last year the firm was fined EUR103m ($140m) by the German competition authority for complicity in a cartel that conspired to keep the price of railway tracks high. Another scandal involved lavish (but legal) spending on five-star foreign jaunts for journalists and workers' representatives. More damagingly, the company wasted billions building steel mills in Brazil and Alabama by completely misjudging the market.Heinrich Hiesinger, ThyssenKrupp's chief executive for the past two years, is determined to prove that things are improving. He is shedding some of its core steel businesses, the hallmarks of Thyssen and Krupp, two giants which merged in 1999. He has also sold 70% of its stainless-steel subsidiary Inoxum, and seven other subsidiaries since May 2011.Mr Hiesinger's goal is to turn ThyssenKrupp into an integrated technology provider, something more like Siemens, the engineering conglomerate where Mr Hiesinger worked until 2010. ThyssenKrupp is now concentrating on making components for cars and heavy vehicles, building naval ships and submarines, and its elevator business. Steel is planned to account for only 30% of sales.Many shareholders praise Mr Hiesinger for his efforts, but they are still seething at the poor management and sheer waste which preceded his arrival. The embarrassing adventure in America and Brazil cost ThyssenKrupp around EUR11 billion; it will be lucky to get EUR4 billion back with the sale of both mills. The firm booked a net loss of EUR5 billion for the financial year that ended on September 30th and paid no dividend for the first time in its 13-year history.Three management-board members have resigned--but only one supervisory-board member, a trade-union representative, has done so. Unsurprisingly, corporate-governance experts are unhappy. On January 11th a newly formed association of supervisory-board members in Germany wrote to ThyssenKrupp's chairman, Gerhard Cromme, urging him to fall on his sword, too. As a former founding chairman of a government-sponsored commission on corporate governance, he himself should adhere to the "standards you have so publicly promoted", the association wrote.At ThyssenKrupp's annual general meeting on January 18th Mr Cromme faced a barrage of whistles and catcalls, but stood his ground. He admitted that the supervisory board had been credulous and late to act. "But when we acted we did so decisively," he said. As penance each board member would take a 50% cut in pay. In the end, 69% of shareholders supported him.Yet reservations remain about the balance of power in the company. Unusually for one of Germany's leading listed firms, more than 25% of the shares are held by a foundation, the Alfried Krupp von Bohlen und Halbach Stiftung. It appoints three members of the supervisory board and has the power to block board decisions. Berthold Beitz, now 99, a former chairman of Krupp, has headed the foundation since 1967 and is still a force to be reckoned with. Without his backing, say some, Mr Cromme would have gone long ago.