Top 5 Areas of Concern as ITC Kicks Off Aluminum 332 InvestigationThis morning, the U.S. International Trade Commission kicks off its 332 investigation of the aluminum industry's competitiveness in the global arena.MetalMiner Price Benchmarking: Current and Historical Prices for the Metals You BuyBefore the hearing, executives from Scepter, Inc., Novelis North America, Hydro Metals USA and the Aluminum Association gave members of the press a preview of what the industry's testimony before the ITC will sound like.According to Aluminum Association President Heidi Brock's testimony, the Commission should focus on 5 key areas:When MetalMiner asked Brock about how much data and information the AA currently has on Chinese state-organized enterprises and subsidization practices, per the second bullet point on transparency, her answer indicated that the domestic industry may still largely be in the dark regarding the details."It's going to be a long process," Brock said. "Compared to the U.S. industry, where we've been collecting and reporting [data] for decades now, our hope is that our Chinese colleagues commit to transparency in their markets."She mentioned that it is "frustrating" when China says they plan to cut capacity, and then turn around and go back on their word. For example, according to her testimony, one of the largest aluminum producers in China announced in October 2015 that it would curtail all of the capacity at one of its largest smelters due to low aluminum prices and the resulting losses. But the decision was reversed only a few weeks later when the local government offered significant discounts on critical inputs, such as power, in order to avoid the loss of local jobs.Two-Month Trial: Metal Buying Outlook"We are out there selling our product, and we have seen low prices coming from outside," said Marco Palmieri, president of Novelis North America. "That has caused significant issues -- and [those issues are] real."The Commission is expected to deliver a final report based on this investigation in summer 2017.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service