Tough measures for tough timesAFTER the go-go years of the late 1990s, mergers and acquisitions plummeted. In the first half of this year, deals fell to levels last seen in the mid-1990s. But two landmark bids, on either side of the Atlantic, hint that there may be a new mood of aggression abroad as managers, boards and shareholders realise that tough times require tough measures. Canada's Alcan had tried to merge with France's Pechiney and Switzerland's Algroup three years ago, but compromised on a smaller deal with Algroup after it became clear that the European Commission would not sanction the three-way deal. Earlier this year, the enlarged Alcan and Pechiney held inconclusive discussions about a friendly merger, after which Alcan's boss, Travis Engen, lost patience. On Monday July 7th, he launched a euro3.4 billion ($3.8 billion) part-cash, part-shares bid for the French company. The offer is likely to attract close scrutiny from the competition authorities in Brussels (the two firms combined would be the world's second-biggest aluminium producer) and equally close, though probably more subtle, scrutiny from France's politicians. Their preference for national champions is so well known that bidders normally do not even bother to try hostile deals.Alcan has made some gestures that may mollify the authorities in both Brussels and Paris and aid its chance of winning Pechiney. It has signalled a willingness to sell assets if regulators think they would give it a monopoly position in certain markets. It has also promised to put the new group's packaging headquarters in Paris, and to keep Pechiney's "critical human resources". One unspoken advantage is that Alcan is not American but French Canadian. The bid, while much lower than that made in 2000, before the world economy went into a downturn, is at a 20.5% premium to Pechiney's share price. After three years of falling stockmarkets, that might be enough to persuade Pechiney's French shareholders to ditch their national pride.Alcan's tilt at Pechiney is the 14th hostile bid in continental Europe so far this year, compared to 13 in all of last year. Gas Natural failed to win control of Iberdrola, another Spanish utility; Zimmer's attempt to break up an agreed merger between Centerpulse and Smith & Nephew is still pending. But there has been nothing on the scale of Vodafone's whopping bid for telecoms rival Mannesmann in 1999, the first foreign hostile takeover of a quoted German company.It is easy to mock "sclerotic" Europe for its resistance to the red-blooded, Anglo-Saxon takeover. But hostile bids are, in fact, just as unpopular in America these days--which is what makes Oracle's recent unfriendly bid for PeopleSoft, a rival software firm, stand out. Despite the efficiency of its capital markets, America's market for corporate control is very far from free. A slew of hostile takeovers during the 1980s led many states to legislate to allow firms to implement anti-takeover measures, and these have been backed by the Supreme Court.In the absence of an open market for takeovers, the allocation of share options came to be seen as one of the key ways of motivating managers, with unintended consequences. The mega-deals of the 1990s were typically consensual affairs with large pay-offs for the departing boss. The excesses of the 1990s, and the destruction by management of many of America's biggest companies, has led to a new mood of realism among shareholders. They are no longer so willing to back incumbent managers at any cost. In another sign that the hostile takeover is coming back into fashion, on Tuesday America's ArvinMeritor launched a $2.2 billion cash bid for Dana Corp, a rival maker of car parts.PeopleSoft has the option of using a so-called "poison pill"--the ability to issue masses of shares that would dilute its value--in the event of a takeover. It also has a "staggered board", where directors are elected in different years, making it impossible to take control of the company in a short space of time. In theory, these measures are meant to forestall a "rush to judgment" in the event of a hostile bid. In practice, they protect incumbent managers against any threat to their position. And both devices are popular: the poison pill is present in more than a third of 5,529 public companies monitored by Institutional Shareholder Services, while more than half have staggered boards.There are signs, however, that both shareholders and the courts are becoming more wary of these measures. Hewlett Packard, another technology firm, was forced to dissolve its poison pill by recent shareholder pressure. El Paso, an energy company, also got rid of its poison pill following complaints from dissident shareholders. This year, it is dismantling another defence, a requirement for a supermajority on any "fair price" vote on a hostile bid.A disproportionately large number of American companies are incorporated in the state of Delaware because of its management-friendly rules. However, even Delaware courts are beginning to respond to shareholder disquiet. Recent rulings, including sharp words for Disney's board over an obscene pay-off to Michael Ovitz, a failed former company president, suggest that its judges have begun to rethink the latitude with which they have allowed directors to exercise their "business judgment".In another victory for shareholders, the Michigan state senate has shelved a bill designed to protect Taubman Centers, a local owner of shopping malls, from a hostile bid. One Republican state representative said of the bill: "It gives homegrown companies a fighting chance of staying homegrown." However, the bill was opposed by shareholders, one of whom dumped his near-10% stake in the company, asking: "How do you price expropriation risk?"