Trade policySteely resolveIN POLITICS, as in comedy, timing is everything. President George Bush announced on June 5th that America would begin investigating unfair trade practices in the global steel industry, with the intent of imposing new anti-dumping duties on imports. Mr Bush had an important domestic reason for acting when he did, but he also risks alienating his trading partners at a crucial time.The newly empowered Democrats in the Senate were about to steal Mr Bush's thunder. America's steel makers have long been lobbying for an anti-dumping investigation, and Max Baucus, a Democrat from Montana, was planning to ask for it as he took over the Senate Finance Committee. Mr Bush hopes to use the investigation, which is likely to result in protective duties, as a sop to organised labour to help his push in Congress for trade-promotion authority, the speeded-up negotiating powers once known as fast-track.For this reason, Mr Bush's cabinet has been looking into the possibility of an investigation for months. The treasury secretary, Paul O'Neill, commissioned a private study of the steel trade from the Boston Consulting Group early in Mr Bush's term. In April America's trade representative, Robert Zoellick (normally a devout free-trader), lent support to the idea of protecting the steel industry as long as it continues "moving in the right direction", which is apparently towards attrition. Donald Evans, the commerce secretary, asserted in May that America would ensure a "level playing field" for its steel companies.The investigation, under the notorious Section 201 of the Trade Act of 1974, immediately came close to torpedoing the administration's new two-way policy on China--warm on trade, cool on security. American and Chinese trade negotiators were locked up this week in Shanghai, trying to resolve the level of agricultural subsidies China would maintain after joining the World Trade Organisation (WTO). China's top WTO negotiator, Long Yongtu, said he would wait and see whether the American action complied with the global body's rules before reacting. But Chinese steel companies, which account for 7% of America's imports and are already the subject of anti-dumping complaints there, condemned Mr Bush's move.The reaction from Europe was also hostile. Shares in steel makers fell as talk circulated of the European Union challenging any American curbs on imports at the WTO. Pascal Lamy, the European Union's trade commissioner, opposed Mr Bush's action; he had been hoping for multilateral talks on steel.The other parts of the president's plan for the steel industry are agreeably multilateral: he wants Mr Zoellick to negotiate a cut in excess capacity and eliminate government subsidies in the steel industry worldwide. David Phelps, president of the American Institute for International Steel, sees those as positive developments. But he would have preferred Mr Bush to encourage America's steel firms to take part in the merger wave that has lately swept the globe, rather than squawk for more protection. 