TradeSteel, rolledAPTaking the measure of tariffsAS REVERSALS of fortune go, America's steel industry has suffered a big one. Earlier this spring, steel makers got the deal of their dreams when George Bush slapped tariffs of 30% on 12m tonnes of foreign steel. Last month Mr Bush decided to take back some of his earlier gifts. In an attempt to placate Europeans, the administration announced new exemptions for around half the previously affected European steel products.If betrayal by the White House were not enough, America's International Trade Commission (ITC) has now added insult to injury. In a dispute over imports of cold-rolled steel, a product widely used in the car industry, the ITC ruled that claims of illegal foreign dumping were already being remedied by the Bush tariffs. The commission rejected further attempts to slap on emergency duties. Has America recovered its free-trade credentials?Not quite. The original tariffs are still in place, and still causing pain for some foreign producers. Meanwhile, America's steel makers reap healthy profits these days, as the ITC probably noticed. Even so, the climbdown by the Bush administration, along with the ruling by the trade commission, goes a long way to appease the European Union, which was on the brink of putting retaliatory tariffs on more than $2 billion of imports from America.For now, that threat has receded. The European Union says the latest American moves are welcome. Yet other trade rows rankle. The outrage over America's generous farm bill was not wholly mitigated by its more recent proposal to slash farm subsidies in the Doha round of trade talks. This week's Earth Summit in Johannesburg has put these--as well as Europe's even more generous subsidies--once more under the spotlight. In steel, the cold-rolled case is not yet over. The same charges against 15 other countries are expected to be heard in October, though it would be a surprise if the outcome were different.Although the steel decisions may mark the end of the worst period in recent EU-American trade relations, nobody is betting on a new golden age of free trade. A new era, however, is about to start at the World Trade Organisation (WTO). This week Supachai Panitchpakdi, a former deputy prime minister of Thailand, succeeds Mike Moore of New Zealand as the WTO's director-general. In 1999, the Americans tried to block Mr Supachai's appointment, but now they insist they are ready to work with him in pushing forward the Doha round. It will, however, take an all-out commitment from America and Europe to get things moving again before next year's ministerial meeting in Mexico. Mr Supachai, for his part, wants especially to promote poor countries' interests.Shortly after the anti-dumping ruling, Bethlehem Steel, one of the companies bringing the cold-rolled complaint, expressed disappointment. More tellingly, it decided to close a Pennsylvania steel-pipe mill. More closures across the country would do more for the steel industry than going begging to Washington.