U.S. Steel Accuses China of Stealing Intellectual PropertyU.S. Steel is accusing Chinese steelmakers of intellectual property theft and Germany is subsidizing its electric car industry.U.S. Steel Corp. has launched a campaign to prevent imports from China's largest steel producers, it said on Tuesday, the boldest step yet by a U.S. company as a trade brawl with the world's largest steel producer escalates.In a complaint to the U.S. International Trade Commission, the domestic steelmaker called on regulators to investigate dozens of Chinese producers and their distributors for allegedly conspiring to fix prices, stealing trade secrets and circumventing trade duties by false labeling.Two-Month Trial: Metal Buying OutlookThe petition, known as Section 337 is used to protect against intellectual property theft, listed some of China's top producers, including Hebei Iron & Steel Group and Anshan Iron and Steel Group and Shandong Iron & Steel Group Co."We have said that we will use every tool available to fight for fair trade," said U.S. Steel Corp President and Chief Executive Officer Mario Longhi in a statement.Germany's auto industry risks being overtaken by foreign competitors unless it receives greater domestic support, the country's economy minister said today, announcing a 1 billion euro ($1.13 billion) plan to subsidize electric cars that are seen as the technology of the future.Electric vehicles have had a sluggish start in Germany, the country where the combustion engine-powered automobile was born. A government plan to get 1 million e-cars on the streets by 2020 is far behind schedule, with just 50,000 sold so far.Free Download: The April 2016 MMI Report"After a long debate we have agreed to a subsidy program that aims to show on the home market that we can master these new drive trains, from plug-in hybrid to battery-powered vehicles, and make them suitable for the mass market," Economy Minister Sigmar Gabriel said at a news conference in Berlin.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service