USITC Says Carbon and Alloy Wire Rod Imports from South Africa, Ukraine Harm Domestic Industrynatali_mis/Adobe StockWhile the Department of Commerce's release of its Section 232 report on steel and aluminum stole most of the headlines last Friday, the United States International Trade Commission (USITC) voted that imports of carbon and alloy steel wire rod from South Africa and Ukraine pose harm to domestic industry.According to the USITC release, the U.S. Department of Commerce (Commerce) has determined the products "are sold in the United States at less than fair value."Need buying strategies for steel in 2018? MetalMiner's Annual Outlook has what you need The products included in the order are "certain hot-rolled products of carbon steel and alloy steel, in coils, of approximately round cross section, less than 19.00 mm in actual solid cross-sectional diameter."The vote in the case was unanimous, with Chairman Rhonda K. Schmidtlein, Vice Chairman David S. Johanson, and Commissioners Irving A. Williamson and Meredith M. Broadbent all voting in the affirmative.Now, the Department of Commerce will issue antidumping duty orders for the imports from the two countries.Imports of the two products from the countries in question were valued at $67.5 million in 2016, according to a USITC fact sheet. The domestic petitioners in the case were: Charter Steel, of Saukville, Wis.; Gerdau Ameristeel US Inc., of Tampa, Fla.; Keystone Consolidated Industries, Inc., of Peoria, Ill.; and Nucor Corporation, of Charlotte, N.C.For more efficient carbon steel buying strategies, take a free trial of MetalMiner's Monthly Outlook!According to the announcement, the USITC's report on the investigation will be made available online March 22 at the following link: http://pubapps.usitc.gov/applications/publogs/qry_publication_loglist.asp.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service