Week in Review U.K. Election Shocks; 232 Investigation Results NearBefore we head into the weekend, let's take a look back at a few of this week's stories:Benchmark Your Current Metal Price by Grade, Shape and Alloy: See How it Stacks UpIakov Kalinin/Adobe StockOur Stuart Burns wrote about the U.K. parliamentary elections, which surprised many and saw Labour outperform expectations against Prime Minister Theresa May's Conservative Party.What does the election result mean for business? Well, that will partially be determined by which path to Brexit the U.K. ultimately takes. Burns writes there is likely to be compromise and a search for alternate solutions -- that is, a softer Brexit.White House spokesman Sean Spicer announced Monday the findings of the administration's Section 232 investigation into steel imports could be released as early this week.Although the findings have yet to be released, our Lisa Reisman laid out the potential outcomes and impacts of the investigation on Wednesday.How will the recommendations affect steel prices domestically? No one knows for sure, of course, but Reisman wrote we shouldn't jump to conclusions about potential price increases."Some have speculated that the forthcoming recommendations would force prices higher, however, we would not necessarily rush to that same conclusion," Reisman wrote.Burns also wrote this week about commodities markets -- and not just metals, but oil, too -- which have seen a drop in optimism of late.What's the downtrend all about? Many reasons, Burns argues, including: oversupply, the Chinese government "squeezing investors by increasing shadow banking borrowing costs," and waning optimism with respect to the Trump administration delivering on campaign promises regarding massive infrastructure projects.But not to send you into your weekend on a down note -- it's not all cloudy skies."With that said, that doesn't mean the U.S. or global economies are about to tank," Burns writes. "European growth has been much better this year and Japan is expected to improve further, while the World Bank is predicting an unchanged 2.7% global growth this year in its latest report."In case you missed it, our monthly MMI Report was released this week; as always, it's jam-packed with information.The report covers markets trends in our 10 sub-indexes: Automotive, Aluminum, Construction, Copper, Global Precious, GOES (grain-oriented electrical steel), Rare Earths, Raw Steel, Renewables and Stainless Steel.Want to know what's happening in any of these categories? Get yourself up to speed by checking out the June report, which you can access by visiting the link below.Free Download: The June 2017 MMI ReportYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service