Weirton, where free trade hurtsTHE people of Weirton, in West Virginia, feel they have a Monica Moment all of their own. In 1992, six years before a finger-wagging Bill Clinton fiercely denied having sex with "that woman", he sat on a bar stool at a Weirton community centre, waved that same scolding index finger, and declared with seeming certainty, "I want to make sure we enforce strictly the anti-dumping laws." Today President Clinton's anti-dumping bravado has not prevented a local company, Weirton Steel, from having to lay off a fifth of its workforce. Though Weirton folk are traditionally Democrats, they have come to see Mr Clinton as a liar and a traitor. "I have a little difficulty referring to him as president," the local union leader says.It hardly matters where you go in Weirton, you will hear the same harsh words. The union leader's talk of instigating "riots in Washington", even of "overthrowing the government", is only slightly fiercer than the managers' view of Mr Clinton: "We do not urge civil disobedience, for now," the steel mill's spokesman says. Weirton's mayor, who doubles as a steel worker, says his Democratic loyalties do not stop him feeling "betrayed and forgotten" by the president. All along Main Street, "Stand Up for Steel" signs hang in the shop windows. In one office, a portrait of the president has been replaced by the number of the White House complaint line.The way the mayor sees it, there is a particular injustice in the recent lay-offs. Everyone in the town accepts that the steel industry is cyclical, and that periods of unemployment are an acceptable nuisance in a trade that usually pays well. Everyone accepts, at least in theory, that the steel business is competitive: for this reason, Weirton has invested $1 billion in new machinery over the past decade, and shed two-thirds of its workforce since it narrowly escaped closure in the early 1980s. But not everyone accepts that Weirton's best efforts can be swatted aside by exchange-rate swings that even economists call "irrational". During the first half of last year, Weirton turned a profit. Then submerging markets unleashed a torrent of cheap imports, flooding Weirton in red ink.If Mr Clinton's campaign promise meant anything, the locals reason, it meant protection from this kind of random shock. Last September, Weirton teamed up with other steel companies to file a suit against Russia, Brazil and Japan, alleging that all three countries sell steel in America for less than its production cost. In keeping with the president's promise, the administration ruled in February that Brazil and Japan were indeed guilty of dumping, and imposed punitive tariffs on them. However, the president was more generous to Russia. Hoping to keep this nuclear ex-superpower on the right side of the precipice, he hit Russia with a quota rather than with a punitive tariff that in effect bars all imports. To which Weirton responds, "The president cares more about Russian families than ours."It is tempting to shrug off Weirton's outrage, for much of it is overblown. The administration is hardly being soft on Russia: it has demanded a six-month suspension of steel shipments, followed by a quota that would restrict Russia to pre-crisis export volumes. Moreover, cheap foreign steel may be hard on Weirton, but it is the delight of American car makers and motorists. And even Weirton's suffering should not be exaggerated. It is nothing compared with the misery of countless towns in Russia. Laid-off Weirton workers can probably find new employment only half an hour away in booming Pittsburgh; and the administration is ready with grants to help them get retrained.And yet it is too simple to dismiss Weirton's anger, for it carries political punch. The town's leaders have been to Washington: they have marched in the streets, testified before Congress, secured audiences with both president and vice-president. At every opportunity, they remind anyone who cares to listen that the steel industry is strong in swing states like Ohio, and that union organisers are a key part of the Democratic base. Republicans have not failed to spot this opening. Pat Buchanan, their chief protectionist, visited Weirton the day before announcing his third run for the White House. In Congress, the House Republicans are set to vote on a bill imposing quotas on all foreign steel producers.All of which alarms the administration's free-traders, especially Bob Rubin at the Treasury. The House legislation flouts the rules of the World Trade Organisation, and is a slap in the face for the whole idea of multilateral trading treaties. For the moment, there is a good chance of blocking the House bill in the Senate; but then again protectionist pressures may grow worse. America's economy is, even more than it was six months ago, a beacon in a gloomy world, and so a magnet for imports. America's politics, meanwhile, are moving into a presidential campaign season that seems sure to feature manifold assaults on globalisation: most stridently from Mr Buchanan, but from others too who can see the votes in it.Contemplating this mess, you may despair at America's trade politics. The Clinton administration has done more than enough to shield the steel industry from poor countries that have the effrontery to try to make a living; and yet it still reaps a political whirlwind. This being so, some might conclude that it was wrong to offer a half-concession to Russia, since this gave protectionists a rhetorical club with which to beat free-traders: "Mr Clinton is America's president, not Russia's," as one Weirton worker says. Others say that retraining grants and other assistance need to reach affected towns faster, before they become disaffected. The administration is mulling ways of doing this.And yet a blunter lesson seems most obvious. The Weirton story shows that, if you promise people "fair trade", they will expect to be protected from the more irrational vicissitudes of the world economy; and that this expectation will, in the end, boomerang. It is better to make the argument for free trade openly and loudly, rather than try to silence protectionists with concessions that merely whet their appetites. 