Why China Market Economy Status Matters A New MetalMiner ProjectWhether you're a regular MetalMiner reader, or have never heard of us before, you're likely familiar with the outsize role China has played in trading with the Western world -- and especially with the United States.That's why we've taken the opportunity to dive deep on a nuanced issue that's central to the U.S.-China relationship, now and into the future. Our new project, China vs. the World: Why the Battle for New Trade Status is Such a Huge Deal, explores how China's approach to global trade over the past several decades has affected American commerce (for better and worse), and how something called "market economy status" could change the rules of the game as we know it.In the latest move, U.S. Representatives Tim Murphy (R-PA) and Peter J. Visclosky (D-IN), the chairman and vice-chairman of the Congressional Steel Caucus, respectively, introduced a House resolution calling on the current Administration to take action on this very issue. But resolving the issue will likely be a longer battle.While the mainstream media has taken advantage of reporting presidential hopeful Donald Trump's numerous references to China and his blunt stance on how he intends to change our relationship with that country, MetalMiner's journalists and editors set out to unpack the tangible drivers behind these types of general sentiments, with a particular focus on -- and for -- U.S. manufacturing organizations.Among the highlights:We hope you'll find this type of project and its presentation refreshing and informative. If you like it, please share it with your networks! We welcome and value your feedback, so please feel free to send us a note at research@metalminer.com.Thank you for reading,Taras Berezowsky
Managing EditorYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.Our Free MetalMiner Newsletter(c)2020 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. | Media Kit | Cookie Consent Settings | privacy policy | terms of service