Xstrata and GlencoreA meeting of minesThe stuff that deals are made ofIN HIS early teens, long before going in to bat as boss of Xstrata, Mick Davis qualified as South Africa's youngest-ever cricket umpire. The game's complex rules may remind him of Xstrata's intertwined relations with its biggest shareholder, Glencore. The private commodity trader based in Switzerland, which owns 34% of the miner and the marketing rights to some of its output, gives little away about its operations, usually earning it the tag "secretive". Xstrata, one of the world's biggest mining firms, was born out of the initial public offering (IPO) of Glencore's coal mines in 2002. It has grown spectacularly since and is now worth some $52 billion. The latest shifting of assets between the pair came on March 5th when Xstrata said Glencore had exercised an option to repurchase Prodeco, a Colombian coal mine. Glencore had sold the mine to Xstrata last year for $2 billion, to raise the funds to participate in Xstrata's rights issue.At a repurchase price of $2.25 billion plus any outstanding profits and reimbursement for money invested in the business, Xstrata will profit from the deal. Glencore, whose finances have been buoyed by rising commodity prices, gets back a low-cost, long-lived mine that it probably values at something over $4 billion.Xstrata, whose history is one of serial dealmaking, would doubtless have liked to hang on to the mine. But Mr Davis is used to moving on swiftly. In 2008 discussions about a $90 billion merger proposed by Brazil's Vale foundered over price. Next, Mr Davis proposed a merger with Anglo American, once ranked as one of the titans of the industry. But his refusal to offer a premium earned a swift rebuff from Anglo. With few big firms left to target and loans harder to come by, Xstrata announced last month that it would concentrate on organic growth. This is something of a change of tack. Xstrata's skill has been in buying lower-quality mines and running them more efficiently. It has done this with an unusually decentralised management: Xstrata employs only 50-odd people at its main offices in Switzerland and London. Mr Davis trusts the business instincts of his unit heads.But what of Mr Davis's dealmaking instincts? If Anglo's current attempts at restructuring founder, its shareholders may welcome renewed interest from Xstrata. Another possibility is a merger with Glencore. The huge trading and logistics operation, backed by a savvy business-intelligence unit, has a global presence in a vast array of commodities that far exceeds that of rivals such as Cargill or Trafigura. Scale and an uncanny ability to predict commodity-price movements has allowed Glencore to make decent returns in a business where margins are wafer-thin. On March 10th it announced net profits of $2.7 billion on revenues of $106 billion.Glencore also owns shares of mines beyond Prodeco, although some are of dubious quality. But it struggled to agree on a valuation of Prodeco with Xstrata, and would presumably face the same problem with its other assets--meaning a merger would be tricky to negotiate.Another possibility is an IPO. The shift from private to public would be a giant step for Glencore, but its current partnership structure makes it hard to raise money in the markets to fund future growth. The issue of $2 billion in convertible bonds in December, with a maturity of 2014 at the latest, has set the clock ticking. The issue values Glencore at $35 billion. But the firm may delay an offering in the hope that rising commodity prices will boost that figure. If Glencore does choose to go public, it will be subject to much more onerous reporting and disclosure rules. That may simplify its relations with Xstrata, but will doubtless also reveal some of the strategies that underpin its trading success. 