  Oil prices likely need to recover to roughly $70 a barrel —  and stay there — before U.S. shale drillers start investing  in new production, Tom Petrie said Thursday.  The chairman of investment banking firm Petrie Partners made the  call on CNBC's "Squawk  on the Street" after being asked to assess the view of Chesapeake Energy co-founder Tom  Ward that capital markets would not open to most U.S. drillers  until crude prices rebound to $75.  Drillers need access to debt and equity markets in order to  invest in new production, Ward told "Squawk on the Street" last  month. Oil and gas companies have slashed capital spending  because crude prices have been too low to support new investment.  U.S. output ticked up for the first time in three months last  week, according to weekly production figures released Wednesday by the  Energy Information Administration.But Petrie said the cost of bringing on substantial new production requires that  drillers earn more than $50 a barrel. Ward's target is  probably closer to the mark, he added.  "I'd probably say the high $60s to the low to mid-$70s is  the range for a significant change," Petrie said.  More importantly, the institutions that allocate capital need to  believe the price rebound is sustainable, he said. And Petrie   expects setbacks along the road to recovery.  "This is going to be a process of two, three steps forward, one  backward because the incentive for OPEC, and Saudi [Arabia] in  particular, is to remind us that there's downside to be  observed," he said.  OPEC members did not reach an agreement to cut or cap output at a meeting in Vienna last week.  That means countries in the cartel are able to continue producing at high  volumes, which puts pressure on U.S. frackers, who rely on an  expensive drilling method called hydraulic fracturing to free oil  and gas from shale rock.  To be sure, drillers have built up a large inventory of wells that have been drilled but are not yet fracked, a strategy that allows them to start new  production relatively quickly. But Petrie said drillers are already working through the best assets that produce a return at today's low prices.  Still, he said a pattern of tail winds had emerged in oil markets,  setting up a good second half of 2016 for crude prices. Oil  demand in China and India is holding up better than expected, he  said, and some output has fallen due to supply disruptions.  Earlier Thursday, Continental Resources Chairman and CEO Harold Hamm  told CNBC's "Squawk  Box" supply had fallen 90 to 120 days ahead of  expectations due to output disruptions in Canada, Nigeria and elsewhere, and as production continues to drop in the U.S.  oil patch. Petrie said he agreed with that assessment.  Hamm said he now sees oil prices rebounding to $69 to $72 by  year's end. That is well above most estimates.