  After seven years of relative peace, one of the world's most oil-rich regions is once again under siege by militants. And though  Nigeria is well-acquainted with violence on its southern shores,  the group behind a new wave of attacks — the Niger Delta  Avengers — is shrouded in mystery and sabotaging one of the world's biggest oil producers.  The attacks present a serious challenge for President Muhammadu  Buhari, who  entered office last year in the midst of a global  oil price downturn  that has plunged Nigeria into economic crisis and stoked runaway  inflation. Now, assaults by the Avengers have helped send the  country's crude output to its lowest level in decades.  Nigeria is home to Africa's largest economy and one of the  world's biggest populations. Before this year's supply  disruptions, the OPEC member was also the continent's top crude  producer. The oil industry accounts for about 70 percent of  government revenue.  The Niger Delta Avengers are in the business of destroying oil  infrastructure — working in teams, carrying small arms and  explosives, blowing up pipelines and sabotaging facilities  — taking advantage of the Delta's complex, creek-filled  terrain to stay one step ahead of the Nigerian soldiers chasing  them.   They're driven by economic and environmental grievances, and until those  issues are addressed, the Delta will remain in a cycle of sabotage, experts told CNBC. And  Nigeria's oil output will remain under pressure.The Avengers claim on their  website to be young, educated and well-traveled. They say they  are better armed and more civilized than past militants. One  thing's for sure: They are making an impact.Nigerian Oil Minister Emmanuel Ibe Kachikwu this week said the  country's oil production has fallen by 800,000 barrels per day  — to 1.4 million barrels per day — due to attacks on  the nation's infrastructure, local news reported, many or perhaps most of them at the hands of the Avengers.  "We don't see this being a huge group, but at the same time, they  do seem very effective," said Matthew Bey, energy and technology  analyst at geopolitical research firm Stratfor.  On Wednesday, Italian energy giant Eni confirmed that one of its  Nigerian pipelines was sabotaged, UPI reported. The following  day, Exxon Mobil said operations at  its Qua Iboe oil terminal — Nigeria's largest —  had been disrupted by criminal activity. No one has claimed  responsibility for those incidents, but the Avengers are high on the suspect list.  The Avengers did claim responsibility for a recent attack on  Chevron's Okan  offshore platform, Shell's Forcados oil pipeline and other  infrastructure. In recent weeks, Shell and Chevron have  reportedly evacuated staff.   Chevron declined to comment on evacuations or attacks on  installations claimed by the Avengers beyond the Okan platform.  Shell said it did not wish to comment on details of its response to recent attacks, adding that its operations are continuing.  The Avengers demand greater ownership of oil resources  for the people who live in crude-producing areas. They want environmental repair and  compensation for damages inflicted by oil producers. And they want continued government funding for an amnesty  program that is largely credited with halting the last round of Delta violence, which mostly ended in 2009.  Experts on the region say it's unclear if The Delta  Avengers comprise militants who were active during the last  period of unrest — an umbrella group called MEND that operated from 2006 to 2009 — or if they're an entirely new organization.  The Avengers criticize the older groups of militants for  kidnapping people, killing Nigerian soldiers and allegedly enriching  themselves after the 2009 amnesty program. The older alliance  of militants had a diverse group of leaders who contracted out  attacks on oil infrastructure. There is so far scant evidence  that the Avengers have that same scale, said Stratfor's Bey.But Bey said the Avengers appear to be attempting to generate  solidarity with other parts of the Niger Delta that have  historical grievances with oil companies. They claim their  members come from different ethnic groups and regions, and have  evoked the plight of the Ogoni, whose lands have been ravaged by  crude pollution.  "Going forward, Buhari's biggest challenge is making sure this  doesn't spread and become a greater movement," Bey said.  This week, another group calling itself the Red Egbesu Water  Lions vowed to join the fight if some of the Avengers' demands  were not met within a week, local news reported.If the attacks come at the worst possible time for Nigeria, they  were also to be expected. Experts say the amnesty deal was always  a short-term solution.  Under the program, the government handed out multimillion-dollar  contracts to the top leaders of the last round of  militants, paying them to guard oil infrastructure.  The rank and file were compensated with stipends and job  training.  "Essentially, the amnesty was a massive payoff system," said  former U.S. Ambassador to Nigeria John Campbell.  "The leaders of MEND, of the insurrection, were paid off  essentially with government contracts. The rank and file were  supposed to be paid off with vocational training. Of course,  there aren't any jobs in the area," he told CNBC.  Buhari has extended the program through 2017, but he's also  reduced payouts, circumvented the former militant leaders who  previously distributed them and stopped funding security contracts.  Bearing in mind these changes, Ambassador Campbell said the  Avengers could be acting on a "cluster of motivations" that are  both selfish and selfless.  The attacks are likely born out of resentment over amnesty  payments drying up and an anti-corruption campaign that has  disrupted traditional patronage, as well as concern about  environmental damage and the long-held belief the Delta region  does not get an equitable share of oil revenues, he said.   The structure of the amnesty also offers clues about the Avengers' makeup.  Midlevel commanders were left without opportunities that matched  their expectations and sense of their own standing, said Akin  Iwilade, a research student at Oxford University who studies why Nigerians join gangs and has  interacted with former militants.  "Many of these guys, they got into the amnesty, but they didn't  get half of what they expected," he said, though he cautioned  there is no hard evidence to suggest the Avengers are comprised  of former midlevel commanders.  While the amnesty failed to address broader concerns about  development and political inclusion, Iwilade said it has improved  the lives of former low-level militants by allowing fugitives to  return to civilian life and reducing violence in the Delta. And  while training has failed to lead to jobs in many cases, it has  allowed at least some people to start businesses and families, he  said.  Those benefits could limit the appeal among former militants of  returning to the Delta's networks of creeks to carry out attacks.  Still, the Nigerian government runs the risk of exacerbating the  problem if it takes a hard line, said Olanshile Akintola, another  research student at Oxford who also interacts with Nigerian  youth, told CNBC in a separate interview.  "What we're really concerned about is Buhari's response to the  NDA has been one of serious threats, which historically hasn't  worked. It's just made things worse," he said.Buhari has vowed to stamp out the Avengers, but the military has  found it difficult in the past to hunt down militants in the  Delta's maze of creeks. Nigeria's armed forces are also stretched  thin as they wage a simultaneous, separate campaign against Muslim terror group Boko Haram in the north, and  grapples with ethnic land conflicts in Nigeria's middle belt.  Both Iwilade and Akintola said the ultimate solution will require  Buhari to start a dialogue with the Delta region and address the  root causes of unrest.  The key is to show a greater commitment to a more-inclusive form  of government that reduces marginalization and assures Buhari's anti-corruption campaign does not solely target the opposition  party, Iwilade said.  Until then, the amnesty has given young, disenfranchised men a simple  model, according to Ambassador Campbell.  "If you have nothing to do, go out, blow up enough and you'll get  bought off," he said.