 Brent crude  futures pared gains Tuesday following news that Qatar, Saudi  Arabia, Russia and Venezuela would lead an effort to freeze  output at January levels, dashing hopes of a cut in  production.   Oil producer Iran swiftly dashed hopes of a deal however, saying  it would not abandon its share in the oil market, although  Reuters cited two two sources familiar with the matter as saying the OPEC member could be offered  special terms under a global deal to freeze oil production  levels.   "Iran has its own model and the meeting is taking place in  Iran. Iran is returning to the market and needs to be given a  special chance but it also needs to make some calculations," said  one of the sources, who were not from Iran. But fellow oil producer Iraq said it was ready to freeze production at January levels if an agreement was reached among OPEC and non-OPEC countries.  The large producers met in Doha, Qatar, to discuss measures to  tackle a supply glut that's sent prices to 13-year-lows.    Qatar's energy minister, Mohammad bin Saleh al-Sada, said the  agreement would help stabilize the market. Saudi oil  minister Ali Al-Naimi said  the freeze was "adequate" for the market, adding the meeting was  successful. He added he hoped producers inside and outside OPEC  would adopt the proposal.  Reuters subsequently cited Azeri Deputy Oil Minister Natiq  Abbasov as saying Azerbaijan had no plans to freeze its oil  production. Iran's oil minister also said Tehran would not give  up its market share, according to Reuters which cited the Iranian  Shana agency.    The producers will meet with Iran and Iraq on Wednesday and may  find significant reticence on the part of Iran to hold output  steady. After years of sanctions, Iran plans to ramp up  production in a bid to regain market share.   Qatar is the current holder of the rotating OPEC  presidency.   Earlier, news of the meeting sparked hopes of an eventual  deal on supply cuts, after Saudi Arabia-led oil cartel OPEC  previously persistently refused to lower its 30 million  barrel-a-day production ceiling in a strategy to squeeze out  higher cost energy producers, including U.S. shale  companies.  Reuters reported that the meeting had echoes of a 2001 encounter  between OPEC and non-OPEC producers when Saudi Arabia pushed  through a global deal to curb output in which Russia agreed to  participate. But Moscow never properly followed through on its  pledge to curb exports.   After 19 months of declines in oil prices, analyst are cautious,  however, of another short-lived bump higher based on jawboning  from producers. This is despite the fact that the impetus to  agree on price-boosting production cuts has been heightened by  budgetary pain in both Russia and Saudi Arabia.  "The noise around potential production cuts is hugely elevated;  if we don't see a cohesive response in a month or so, the  speculators will no doubt start to ramp up short positions  again," IG's chief market strategist, Chris Weston, said in a  note.   And Phillips Futures cautioned, "if they allow prices move up in the immediate term,  prices would likely be remaining lower for longer. This is  because producers of oil at higher breakevens could hedge off  their exposure, resulting in strong production moving forward.  Thus, would mean that it would still be in the best interest  for oil producers, especially those who could still get by to  continue and wait it out, no matter how painful it  may be."  The Tuesday price spike also masked complications in the oil  industry that have clouded the market.  One major issue is how much oil producers were actually pumping  out, UBS Wealth Management's commodities and FX strategist Wayne  Gordon told CNBC's "Street Signs."  "Some people believe that Saudi Arabia et al have been  over-reporting production and exports just so that when they go  to the OPEC meeting they can say 'Oh yeah, we cut around here and  here'," he said.  The world was still swimming in 1-2 million extra barrels of oil  a day, he added.  UBS forecasts oil in the $20-$40-a-barrel range this year.  Also in focus is the fallout and snowball effect of the oil  crash, with banks now faced with decisions on what of their  commodities assets to write down, at a time when lenders are  already under pressure from the Bank of Japan's move into  negative interest rates.  "On the Japanese banks side, clearly they've had to take a lot of  impairments...(over) commodities assets in the last five  years… [then] as you go into negative rates, all you're  really doing is forcing banks to take loans or lend money to  higher risk propositions," Gordon warned.Follow CNBC International on Twitter and Facebook.Reuters contributed to this story