  Falling oil prices have been a godsend to everyone who drives,  but airline passengers have yet to see ticket prices fall as a  result.  The nation's airlines were quick to boost fares when jet fuel  prices went up—fuel is their biggest expense. But now that fuel  prices have taken a nosedive and profits are soaring, consumer  advocates are blasting the airlines for not lowering fares.  In a recent letter to the CEOs of the major U.S. airlines,  Travelers United and FlyersRights.org claim the airlines are  keeping ticket prices high to "gouge" the public. Read more from NBC News: Taiwan Plane Crash: TransAsia Checks Safety on  All ATR 72 Planes Russians Feel Pinch as U.S. Sanctions Bite, Oil  Prices PlummetStudy  Measures 'Missing Oil' From 2010 BP Spill on Gulf Floor  "The airlines are saving billions of dollars and it's time that  consumers get a little bit of that back in some sort of relief,"  said Charles Leocha, chairman of Travelers United.  Airlines for America (A4A), a trade organization that represents  the nation's carriers, responded to that letter with their own on  Tuesday.  "Lower fuel prices are benefiting consumers every day as airlines  add seats and service, invest in new products and places, and  reward employees," wrote Sharon Pinkerton, A4A's senior vice  president for legislative and regulatory policy.  U.S. airlines lost $63 billion dollars from 2001-2010, Pinkerton  explained in her letter, so they remain "focused on reducing the  tens of billions of dollars they still carry in debt," rather  than responding to a potentially short-term drop in fuel  prices.  Last week, when American Airlines announced a record annual  profit of $4.2 billion in 2014, CEO Doug Parker made it clear he  had no plans to cut prices.  "Brent (crude oil) was over $100 a barrel for nearly four years  and it has been under $100 a barrel for merely four months," he  said. "So we are going to continue to run [our airline] as though  we are still operating with $100 per barrel oil." Is there competition?  Paul Hudson, president of FlyersRights.org, calls that  "arrogance." He says the airlines have no reason to do anything  because competition in the industry is now virtually  non-existent. Read MoreOil heading for $30, currency  war coming: Analysts  "It's analogous to OPEC or any other cartel," Hudson said. "When  you have complete domination of the market, you can control the  price."  Travelers United says the nation's four big airlines control 80  percent of the market and keep prices high by maintaining  capacity discipline - that is, they don't add new flights when  there's increased demand. Leocha called on the Department of  Transportation and the Department of Justice to look into this  practice.  "The free market system isn't working anymore," he said.Read MoreHow cooking oil could power  your plane  The nation's airlines see it quite differently. In her letter,  A4A's Sharon Pinkerton called air travel "an excellent value"  with average round-trip domestic fares, including revenue from  various fees, falling 10 percent since 2000. Pinkerton said the  airlines are adding seats. The number of domestic seats available  is at its highest point in seven years, she wrote.  "Consumers are benefiting in many ways from the kind of  competitive, market-based models that Congress envisioned when it  deregulated domestic air service," she wrote. "The bottom line is  this: customers ultimately determine pricing and vote with their  wallets every day about what they value and are willing to pay  for."  FlyersRights.org tells NBC News it plans to launch a petition  campaign in the next few days, calling on the White House and  Congress to review and consider withdrawing the antitrust  exemptions granted to the nation's airlines.