  Oil prices have fluctuated on comments that OPEC countries might  agree to an output cut next week. However, the historic meeting  might not be enough to revamp oil prices.  Libya and Nigeria aren't expected to sign the deal and the  full-backing from two key countries – Iraq and Iran –  is not guaranteed.   CNBC takes a look at what might happen in Austria next Wednesday.  "It's the first time since November 2014 that OPEC members meet  to try to control oil prices," Colin Smith, head of oil research  at Panmure, told CNBC over the phone.   Oil prices have been trading at historic lows given an oversupply  in the market. Brent crude started this year trading at $35 a  barrel and though they have rebounded to about $45, the  oversupply is expected to remain a drag throughout 2017.   The production of shale oil in the U.S., Iran's attempt to  increase oil exports, and sluggish growth in advanced economies  are the main factors bringing oil prices down.  President Nicolas Maduro of Venezuela said Wednesday that a deal  to cut output was "imminent" and asked his oil minister to talk  to Russia in an attempt to bring non-OPEC members to support he  deal.   But analysts have doubts whether, and to what extent, an output  cut will be agreed upon.   "We believe there is a 70 percent chance that OPEC could announce  a 1 million barrel of oil per day production cut on next  Wednesday, 30 November, during the cartel's formal meeting in  Vienna," Nomura said in a research note.   However, research from Societe Generale is less optimistic. "Our  view is that it is a 50-50 tossup, and it is not currently  factored into our balances," the French bank said in a  note.   Smith from Panmure told CNBC that "while reaching agreement looks  tricky, it would be surprising if there was not some kind of firm  commitment from Saudi and its key Gulf allies, given all the  issues were clearly visible at the Algeria meeting, yet Saudi was  willing to sign up to a revised OPEC target."  Reuters reported that OPEC members will debate an output cut of  1.2 million barrels a day, but Iran, Iraq and Indonesia have  shown reservations to such proposal.  "There is likely to be some level of action to cut output but it  may not be clear whether that will be sufficient to meet the new  32.5 – 33 million barrels a day target," Smith added.   Russia is not part of the OPEC group but its troubled economy  would benefit from an increase in oil prices. But the solution  advocated by Moscow is an output freeze and not an output  cut.   The country's energy minister, Alexander Novak, said Thursday  that Russia could cut down its oil production plans in 2017 if a  global output freeze pact is applied, Reuters reported.    Though Russia's involvement is seen as market positive, it's  unlikely that the final deal would require a formal backing by  non-OPEC members, Smith explained.   "If no OPEC agreement is reached, we would probably revise our  2017 price forecast significantly downward, because we would be  left with our current neutral fundamental outlook. Without an  OPEC cut, the global rebalancing will progress much more slowly  than previously expected and be pushed beyond next year," Societe  Generale said.  The French bank is expecting Brent to reach $52.50 in the first  quarter of next year, $55.00 in the second quarter. WTI is  forecast at $51.00 in the first quarter and at $53.50 the second  quarter.   "Trust is a one-time gift. OPEC proposed this production cut (of  1 million barrels per day) in September during the informal  meeting in Algeria. Failure to ratify this production cut in  Vienna could risk losing the trust of the market, triggering  further oil price weakness," Nomura warned in a note.   OPEC's aim is to increase oil prices from their current historic  low levels. According to Nomura, prices should go up by at least  $2 per barrel of oil.   "We believe oil prices will almost certainly rise more than  USD2/bbl in the weeks following this potential OPEC production  cut. This means that OPEC can most likely benefit from rising  revenue despite cutting production and potentially ceding some  market share to US shale producers," the bank said.   Goldman Sachs is also expecting some deal next week to normalize  oil prices. "We think a cut should generate backwardation –  helping OPEC grow market share by sidelining higher-cost  producers – and reduce oil price volatility –  increasing the valuation of their debt and equity," the  investment bank said in a note earlier this week. Follow CNBC International on Twitter and Facebook. 