  As the Dow Jones Industrial Average inches toward the  20,000-point milestone, most Wall Street strategists think it  will move at least a little bit higher. But the extent — and  the shape — of the coming gains remain in dispute.  The big stock indices, like the Dow and ,  have surged since the election, reflecting rising confidence in  surveys of audiences as diverse as consumers and home builders.  The promised stimulus of federal spending increases, especially  on infrastructure, and tax cuts seems to many investors to  promise faster growth next year, even as incoming fourth-quarter  data points to a dip from 3.2 percent annualized growth during  the third quarter.  Many forecasts call for the S&P 500 to reach only 2,300  to 2,350 by the end of 2017, even though corporate earnings  are set to rise as much as 12 percent, led by a quadrupling of  energy-sector profits that were clobbered in early 2016 by cheap  crude-oil prices. In that argument, stocks already reflect the  earnings gains and have only about 1 percent to 4 percent more potential  for short-term gains, according to market analysts.  Predictions for which sectors may lead the way show some of the  divides between optimism and realism roiling the market since the  election: Strategists are divided over the wisdom of rallies in  financial and energy stocks especially, with skeptics saying  banks and asset managers are now overpriced and may not get as  much of a bump from deregulation as bulls think, and that  oil-exporting nations will probably break their recent agreement  to limit production and prop up prices.   A bonus wild card is the erratic nature of President-elect  Trump, known to hop on Twitter and begin bashing the  likes of Boeing and Lockheed Martin over light criticism, let  alone the wrath an errant restaurant review might incur.  "I'm a bull with a lowercase b," said CFRA chief investment  strategist Sam Stovall, noting that traditionally, earnings gains  turn out to be much lower than predicted before a year begins.  "History says that if we expect 12 percent growth, we'll get six  and a half. If Trump accelerates the economy, maybe we'll get the  12."   More from Quarterly Investment Guide:  Dow nearing 20,000, but there are still deals for value  investors  Dow 20k a difficult target but we'll get there: Expert  Investors: Forget Trump and focus on Fed rate hike  As Stovall suggests, the market's new milestone and post-election  surge are on a collision course with the fact that most banks'  economic forecasts have barely budged since the  election. For all the rhetoric about growth, Bank of  America Merrill Lynch's post-election forecast for expansion in  U.S. gross domestic product stayed at 1.9 percent, with slower  growth in early 2017 and some acceleration late in the year as  Trump's policies get implemented. The Federal  Reserve marked up the mean forecast of its Open Market  Committee members by only 0.1 point, to a still-paltry 2.1  percent.  Indeed, Goldman Sachs warns that investors may get ahead of  themselves in early 2017 generally, with the S&P hitting  2,400, then see stocks give back some gains when a  deficit-conscious Congress scales back the president-elect's  corporate tax-cut plan.  "Sector investing in 2017 should be all about identifying where  growth has the best chance of being stimulated, whilst  simultaneously overweighting fundamentals vs. rhetoric," BMO chief investment strategist Brian Belski said.   That's easier said than done, but some sectors elicit broad  agreement. Materials stocks are a good bet to bounce back from  years of depressed commodity prices, though Bank of America  Merrill Lynch strategist Savita Subramanian notes that those  stocks are more exposed to China's economy than other industries. BMO, CFRA and Merrill all rate tech stocks as a group as market  performers, meaning they will do about as well as the broader market. And there is skepticism about real estate and utility  stocks, like Exelon and Southern Co., whose appeal will wane as rising bond yields provide less-risky competition for these often hefty dividend-yield stocks.  Both real estate and utilities flourished as dividend-rich  alternatives to a bond market that has been paying near-zero  interest rates, and they will become less attractive as bonds regain  some allure for income investors. Real estate investment trusts, like Washington REIT and Equity Residential, that are already  tax-free because they pass their earnings through to unit holders  won't benefit much from Trump's vow to cut corporate income  taxes.   Here's how different strategists and banks are looking at the  more controversial sectors among the 11 industry groups in the  S&P 500.  The bulls say widening interest-rate spreads between loans and  deposits will boost income in banks' core businesses, while full  or partial repeal of the 2010 Dodd-Frank financial regulation  law — or the new fiduciary rule requiring asset managers to  put clients' financial interests ahead of their own — will  bring back dormant businesses or cut down red tape. Skeptics say  rates are likely to stay low for longer than bulls think and  that the surge in shares since the election overstates any gains  the companies are likely to get from deregulation soon.BMO says investors should overweight financial stocks despite  their rally since the election, thanks to reversal of what Belski  calls overregulation, as well as the expected climb in interest  rates and widening of spreads between deposit costs and income  from loans and fees. CFRA rates them as "equal weight," thanks to their newly boosted  valuations, and Morgan Stanley suggests some financials,  especially asset managers like BlackRock and T. Rowe Price, have  risen too quickly as speculators bet that deregulation will make  a bigger, faster difference than it actually will. With T.  Rowe shares up 21 percent, the same as Prudential Financial's, and  industry leader BlackRock up 12 percent since the election, CFRA  analysts think any more near-term gains are speculative.  BMO calls energy an equal-weight sector, while CFRA recommends  underweighting energy stocks. CFRA thinks oil prices will drop and head back to  $50 a barrel from the recent levels around $55. This will happen as major  producers cheat on production quotas set up this month by the  Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, or OPEC.BMO says the smart hedge is to bet on  cash-rich producers like Exxon Mobil and on services companies  that will bounce back if drilling does, even if the price per  barrel falls slightly short of forecasts.  BMO's Belski says investors should overweight health-care stocks,  which he says will benefit from Trump's unwillingness to have  Medicare negotiate over drug prices, and from what he called a  "mulligan" on the Affordable Care Act. Congressional Republicans  want to repeal the Obamacare law and replace it with some  smaller yet unidentified substitute. Besides, the stocks are  cheap, he argues.  That logic made little impression on CFRA analyst Jeffrey Loo, whose firm calls for underweighting health care, especially  hospital companies like HCA Healthcare and Tenet Healthcare and insurers who  focus on the Medicaid market, like Molina Healthcare. Both have  benefited from the law's expansion of federal Medicaid funding  to cover more working-class families, and the individual mandate  and subsidies that are convincing more middle-class workers to  get coverage.  "We don't see any clear winner if the individual mandate and  Medicaid expansion are eliminated," Loo said. "The potential of  losing upwards of 20–22 million insured patients will likely  result in lower health-care utilization, resulting in lower sales  across the sector.''   Merrill analysts suggest that companies set to benefit from  Trump's infrastructure-pending push may be done with their rally,  especially since the firm expects Congress to spend less than the  $1 trillion over 10 years the president-elect has floated. Most  firms agree that companies like Lockheed Martin will benefit from higher  defense spending, but Merrill says Boeing may see its  commercial business slow down more than its defense units can  make up for.   The defense stocks highlight a point both Merrill and Goldman  made in their 2017 forecasts: No one really knows what Trump will  do. If the president-elect is the growth-seeker who cuts taxes  and spends more, investors will see one kind of market. If he's  the combative protectionist who slaps fat tariffs on Mexican cars  and Chinese-made cellphones, there will be another. The outcome  will be up in the air until Trump makes his detailed proposals —  and until Congress decides how much of the new president's agenda  to buy into.— By Tim Mullaney, special to CNBC.com