  Saudi women are planning to get behind the wheel on Saturday,  defying a stern warning by the Kingdom's ministry of interior and  pressing for change in the world's last male-only driving nation.Dubbed the "October 26 Driving" campaign, the day aims to raise  awareness of the benefits and the Islamic legality of women  driving.Activists have been calling for action on October 26 using a  variety of popular social media platforms, including Facebook,  Twitter (#Oct26Driving) and WhatsApp. Campaigners are urging  women simply to go about their commutes by driving the car  themselves on that day."People keep saying it's a protest, but it's not in the  conventional sense," a Saudi organizer of the campaign in Jeddah,  who asked to not be named, explained to CNBC. "We're simply  making a point, and hopefully the government will make the  changes sooner rather than later".The official Saudi Press Agency (SPA) released a statement by the  ministry of interior on what it described as "rumors" on social  networks. "The laws of the Kingdom prohibit activities disturbing the  public peace and opening venues to sedition which only serve the  senseless, the ill-intentioned, intruders, and opportunity  hunters," the statement, published on Wednesday, read.It added "the concerned bodies will fully and firmly enforce the  laws against violators".It is not the first time women take the wheel for change. But women who are caught  driving usually bring more trouble to their legal guardians than  themselves, such as the husband, father or a brother.Earlier in the week, clerics gathered in front of one of the  King's palaces to voice their opposition to the prospect of  sharing the road. Religious scholars still wield considerable  influence on domestic policy decisions.  Women in the Kingdom depend on mostly expatriate drivers to get  around. Although there is no explicit law banning women from  driving, there is no section for women in Saudi driving license  centers.  Economists have also told CNBC that allowing women to drive could  give the economy a mild boost, critical at a time the Kingdom is  grappling with a rapidly growing, and predominantly young  population hungry for jobs.  "The economic impact of empowering the female population, which  is around half of the overall working-age population and which  has an employment rate of under 30 percent, could be vast,"  Farouk Soussa, chief economist for the Middle East at Citi, told  CNBC.  Saudi Arabia lacks comprehensive public transport for women, a  major obstacle to them working as it complicates securing a  viable commute.  "Women driving would be an important step for enabling the larger  part of the population to become economically active," Soussa  explained.  There's more. The necessity for drivers from abroad could further  be reduced, and with it the ancillary infrastructure, thereby  alleviating the burden of capital leaving the economy. The  world's top oil exporter has one of the highest remittance  outflows in the world, amounting to $29.5 billion in 2012,  according to the World Bank, second only to the United  States.  Saudi-based economists contacted by CNBC could not be reached on  Thursday, or were reluctant to make comments on the matter given  the political sensitivity of the subject.  Change has historically been slow in the ultraconservative  Kingdom, and despite cautious reforms towards including women in  local elections, there are currently no plans to have women in  the driver's seat. 