  Asia markets were lower on Monday, with sentiment  this week likely to be dominated by the first U.S. presidential  debate, as well as an upcoming informal meeting of OPEC producers.   In Australia, the ASX  200 finished flat at 5,431.40, with the heavily-weighted financial sector lower by 0.13 percent. The energy sector finished down 0.07 percent, while the materials sector gained 0.26 percent. Major banking stocks in the country mostly edged higher, with  ANZ up 0.04 percent, Commonwealth  Bank of Australia flat, Westpac shares up 0.10 percent and  the National  Australia Bank adding 0.14 percent.   In South Korea, the  Kospi closed down 6.96 points, or 0.34 percent, at 2,047.11. In Hong Kong,  the  was down 1.42 percent in late-afternoon trade. Chinese mainland markets closed lower, with the  composite down 52.64 points, or 1.74 percent, at 2,981.24, while the Shenzhen composite shed 41.51 points, or 2.06 percent, to 1,966.60.   Japan's  lost 209.46 points, or 1.25 percent, to 16,544.56,  after a speech from Bank of Japan (BOJ) Governor, Haruhiko  Kuroda, sent the yen higher.   Speaking to business leaders in Osaka, Kuroda said the central  bank was prepared to use every policy tool available to achieve  its 2 percent inflation target.   He reaffirmed the main policy tool at the BOJ's disposal for further easing was to  cut the short-term policy interest rate further into negative  territory and lowering the target level of the long-term interest  rate. He added expanding asset purchases also remained an  option.   "There is no better opportunity than now to completely get out of  deflation," said Kuroda.   The comments from Kuroda sent the Japanese yen slightly higher  against the dollar, trading at 100.85 as of 2:15 p.m. HK/SIN,  compared with levels as high as 101.10 earlier in the  session.   Last week, the yen fell beyond the 102.40 handle, after the BOJ  overhauled its monetary policy, but stopped short of cutting  short-term interest rates deeper into negative  territory.   Major Japanese exporters ended mostly lower, with Toyota shares down 0.55  percent, Nissan off 1.26 percent  and Honda dropping 2.14 percent. A  stronger yen is usually a negative for exporters as it reduces  their overseas profits when converted into the local  currency.   Japanese banking stocks also sold off, likely on the back of  Kuroda's confirmation that further interest rate cuts were still  on the table; negative interest rates can hurt banks' profit  margins.  Shares of Mitsubishi UFJ fell 2.06  percent, SMFG was down 1.41 percent  and Mizuho Financial dropped 1.26  percent.   Analysts said Asian investors were keeping an eye on the upcoming  U.S. presidential debate, where nominees Hillary  Clinton and Donald Trump were set to go head-to-head on Monday evening U.S. time. Recent polls have shown the two candidates  are neck and  neck in their popularity ahead of the November  election.  "A 'good' performance by Trump could see a rally in safe haven  assets, Japanese government bonds/yen, gold, German bunds, and  that further yield compression conversely may actually assist  long duration 'riskier' assets such as emerging markets, high  yield bonds and U.S. equities," Angus Nicholson, a market analyst  at brokerage firm IG, forecast in a morning note to  clients.   But others said the debate could fall short of  expectations.   "We lived through last week with the Fed and the BOJ delivering very little, with a lot of expectations. That could  well be what happens with this debate," Tai Hui, chief Asia  market strategist at JPMorgan Asset Management, told CNBC's  "Squawk Box" on  Monday.   "Given that there is a series of debates, they will try to play  it safe in the first one rather than to really [have a] go at  each other," he added.   In the currency market, the dollar index, which measures the  greenback against a basket of currencies, traded at 95.478 as of  2:22 p.m. HK/SIN. This was compared to levels above 96.00 briefly  touched in the previous week before the U.S. Federal Reserve opted to  keep its monetary policy unchanged.  The Australian dollar traded at  $0.7616, retreating from levels near $0.7680 in the previous  week.   Elsewhere, the  weakened  against the dollar to levels not seen since 2009, trading at  48.19 as of 2:24 p.m. HK/SIN. Reuters reported that local  importers' demand for the greenback for payments had exacerbated  pressure on the peso as foreign investors were also pulling funds  out of the country's stock market amid concerns President Rodrigo  Duterte's aggressive rhetoric and drug crackdown was alienating  key allies.   In the oil market, prices climbed on Monday, with U.S. crude up 0.83 percent to  $44.85 in the afternoon during Asian hours, after falling 3.97  percent on Friday. Global benchmark Brent added 0.89 percent to  $46.30 a barrel.   OPEC producers were set to informally meet this week at the  sidelines of an energy conference in Algeria to discuss a  possible production freeze deal. Prices received a boost on  Monday, following a Reuters report that cited the Algerian energy  minister saying all options were possible for an output cut or  freeze at the meeting.   But analysts remained skeptical.   "While expectations have painted the group into a corner not to  walk away empty-handed, markets have sufficient cynicism not to  expect a concrete deal," said Wei Liang Chang, a currency  strategist at Mizuho Bank.  Chang noted that even if a production freeze deal were achieved,  it would likely not be immediate.   "Such a deal may target a six-month horizon, rather than taking  immediate effect ... in line with the likes of Iran, Iraq,  Nigeria and Libya stabilizing/smoothing their production," he  said.   On Friday, oil prices gyrated after multiple, contradictory  reports created uncertainty. Initially, Reuters reported that  Saudi Arabia had agreed to trim its production if Iran capped its  own output. That sent oil climbing, but prices pulled back  following another report, citing an unnamed Saudi official,  warning against the expectation for a deal.   In company news, Samsung shares reversed early gains of nearly 0.3  percent to trade lower by 0.19 percent, following reports that  the company was delaying the start of new Galaxy Note 7 handset  sales in South Korea until October 1.   Reuters reported the company saying the move was needed for  speedy completion of the ongoing recall in the country of  existing Note 7 smart phones, with only about 200,000 affected  customers having turned in their devices.   The new handset, released earlier this year, had come under  scrutiny, following multiple reports of fires and damage to the  handsets around the world. Earlier this month, Samsung announced  a recall of at least 2.5 million Note 7 handsets in 10 markets to  replace a faulty battery causing the phones to catch fire,  reported Reuters.   Japanese camera maker Nikon beat the broader benchmark to close up 1.93  percent, after Citigroup upgraded the stock to a Buy from Neutral  citing improving technology, change in strategic direction and  expectations that the company could avoid a big drop in earnings  in fiscal 2018.— Reuters contributed to this report.   — Follow CNBC International on Twitter and Facebook.