  Asian markets were mixed Monday, not getting much of a boost from  the better-than-expected U.S. jobs data last week, while Japanese  shares lost ground on the back of a stronger yen.   Japan's  gave up early gains to finish down 40.89 points, or  0.25 percent, at 16,123.27. The Kospi in South Korea closed up 5.4 points,  or 0.27 percent, at 1,978.97.   Australia's ASX  200 closed nearly flat at 4,995.30, with the financials  sub-index reversing most of its early gains of nearly 1 percent  to close up 0.19 percent. The country's so-called Big Four banks  - ANZ, Commonwealth Bank of  Australia, Westpac and NAB - finished mixed, between down 0.1 percent and up  0.55 percent.   Markets in China, Hong Kong and Taiwan are closed  today.   In Japan, data from Bank of Japan (BOJ) showed that  its decision to adopt negative interest rates in late January has  not convinced Japanese companies that inflation in the country  will take off.   Additional data released on Monday as part of the BOJ's Tankan  survey for March showed that companies expected prices to  increase on average 0.8 percent a year from now, lower than their  previous expectations of a 1 percent increase earlier this year.  Firms expect prices to go up 1.1 percent over three years, lower  than their previous expectations of a 1.3 percent rise. The  Tankan survey was originally released on Friday.  The yen, which has strengthened since the BOJ's decision to  introduce negative rates in late January, was at the 111 handle  against the dollar on Monday; as of 2:41 p.m. HK/SIN,  the dollar/yen pair traded at  111.42.   Major Japanese exporters were lower, with shares of Toyota closing down 2.53  percent, Nissan off 2.78 percent  and Honda lower by 1.1 percent. A  stronger yen is a negative for exporters as it affects their  overseas profits when converted into local currency.   Stephen Innes, a senior FX trader at OANDA, said in a note the  pair's decline was due to the "haven appeal for dollar weakness"  and had little to do with yen strength. The U.S. dollar has lost  ground as U.S. Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen last week made  dovish comments that eased concerns that interest rates might be  raised at the central bank's April meeting.   On Friday, figures showed that U.S. nonfarm payrolls increased  by 215,000 in  March, beating expectations for 205,000 jobs. The U.S.  unemployment rate was at 5.0 percent, the first month-over-month  increase since May 2015.  "This month's job data, together with strong job growth over the  last few months, will help to maintain investors' confidence in  the U.S. economy and reduce worries of a recession," Margaret  Yang, market analyst at CMC Markets Singapore, said in a note  Monday.   But she noted that the jobs data isn't likely to impact market  expectations that the U.S. Federal Reserve will increase interest  rates twice this year.   U.S. crude futures retreated  during Asian hours, down 1.44 percent at $36.26 a barrel as of 3:41 p.m. HK/SIN, after finishing down 4 percent on Friday.  Global benchmark Brent futures were off 1.14  percent at $38.23 a barrel, after finishing down 2.34 percent on  Friday.   Oil prices took a hit from Saudi Arabia's deputy Crown Prince  Mohammed bin Salman's remarks last week that cast fresh doubts over the ability of  world oil producers to agree to an output freeze at  their meeting in Qatar on April 17. The prince was reported as  saying the kingdom would not participate in a freeze if Iran and  other major producers, both OPEC and non-OPEC, do not join the  program.   Evan Lucas, market strategist at IG, said in a morning note,  "There has not been one proposal yet that Iran has remotely  entertained." He added that Iran was still producing 25 to 30  percent below its pre-sanctions levels. "[That is] the level Iran  want to reach before entertaining any form of 'freeze,'" he  noted.   Iran's Minister of Petroleum, Bijan Zanganeh, said over the  weekend that the country is exporting above 2 million barrels of  oil and gas condensates a day, according to  the Shana news agency.   Energy plays in Asia were mostly lower on Monday, with shares  of Santos finishing down 4.34  percent and Woodside Petroleum down 2.69  percent, while Inpex erased gains to finish  0.5 percent lower. Japan's Fuji  Oil added 2 percent.  Major U.S. indexes closed higher on Friday, with  the  up  0.61 percent, the S&P 500 higher by 0.63  percent and the  ending up 0.92  percent.  — Patti Domm contributed to this  report.  — Follow CNBC International on Twitter and Facebook.