 Asian currencies are rallying in the aftermath of U.S. Federal Reserve chair Janet Yellen's dovish comments on Tuesday,  sending the greenback down amid a raft of positive  data.  The jumps are  large: The  Australian and New Zealand dollar, which are both commodity-linked  currencies, were near their nine-month peaks on  Thursday.    The Malaysian ringgit also climbed to a new seven-month  high against the U.S. dollar on Thursday; the country is an exporter of oil and natural  gas. The country's private consumption is also expected to grow and remain resilient this year while manufactured exports will be supported by the U.S. and a competitive ringgit, Nomura analysts said in a report Wednesday.  Speaking to the Economic Club of New York on Tuesday, Yellen  noted in prepared remarks that it was appropriate for  policymakers to proceed "cautiously." She noted recent readings  on the strength of the U.S. economy since the beginning of the  year have been mixed.  The dovish  remarks followed  more hawkish comments recently from other Fed members, which had  spurred an uptick in concerns that the Fed  might increase interest rates at its April meeting. Yellen's comments,  coupled with ultra-loose monetary policies in Japan and  Europe, doused  expectations of any aggressive interest rate hikes this year and  fueled a rally in Asian equities markets.   Currencies are still benefitting  from the comments as  well as a recent rise in commodities' prices, including a rise  in oil prices on the back of expectations of an OPEC  production freeze.  Among other currencies gaining  ground,  hit a four-month highagainst the U.S. dollar  on Thursday as industrial output rose a better-than-expected 2.4  percent from a year ago in February.  The Japanese yen, meanwhile, continued to hold strong  around the 112 to 113 level against the dollar.  "The game changer for me is Yellen was extremely  specific...mentioning the currency … saying the dollar cannot  go higher. From a currency perspective, that's pretty  important…It was a really explicit (message)," Jesper  Bargmann, Asian head of trading for Nordea Markets told  CNBC's "Street Signs". Despite better  newsflow, BNP Paribas said in a report Thursday that  there is "no rush to buy the U.S. dollar."  "Our economists continue to see no Fed hikes through 2017,  consistent with their growth forecast that is both below the  Fed's view and below market consensus. Against this backdrop, we  don't see the market re-establishing a long U.S. dollar trade any time  soon," said the bank.  Based on positioning analysis, the house is expecting "moderate"  U.S. dollar weakness, with euro to U.S. dollar climbing to 1.16 by the second quarter from 1.13 now.  Follow CNBC International on Twitter and Facebook.