Bosnia ERS will construct a 48 MW wind park 
02022018

1330
WindBosnia's second-largest power utility ERS launched a tender on Tuesday seeking consultants to advise it on developing a 48 MW wind park to aid the Balkan nation diversify its energy sources and reduce greenhouse gas emissions.The Hrgud wind park in Berkovici, southeastern Bosnia, will include 16 wind turbines with a capacity of 3 MW each. 
 
In 2015, ERS obtained a 50-year concession to build and run the park with a loan of a 60 million euros loan from German state-owned development bank KfW.
 
The project is estimated at a total cost of 65 million euros and ERS will provide the notice of the financial backing.

The wind park, the first in the Serb Republic - one of Bosnia's two postwar independent regions - should be linked to the grid in four years and to annually generate 126 GWh of power.

Bosnia produces 40 percent of its electricity from hydro and the rest from coal-fired plants and intends to raise the share of green energy to 43 percent by 2020.

Unlike other Balkan nations that depend on power imports to cover much of their demand, it is able to export electricity mainly thanks to its hydro capacity.
 
Bosnia's other independent region, the Bosniak-Croat Federation, has given given the green light to three companies to start building wind farms with total capacity of 138 MW. Several developers wish to add a further 320 MW in wind capacity in Bosnia in the following years.
The Hrgud wind park in Berkovici, southeastern Bosnia, will include 16 wind turbines with a capacity of 3 MW each.  In 2015, ERS obtained a 50-year concession to build and run the park with a loan of a 60 million euros loan from German state-owned development bank KfW. The project is estimated at a total cost of 65 million euros and ERS will provide the notice of the financial backing.
The wind park, the first in the Serb Republic - one of Bosnia's two postwar independent regions - should be linked to the grid in four years and to annually generate 126 GWh of power.
Bosnia produces 40 percent of its electricity from hydro and the rest from coal-fired plants and intends to raise the share of green energy to 43 percent by 2020.
Unlike other Balkan nations that depend on power imports to cover much of their demand, it is able to export electricity mainly thanks to its hydro capacity. Bosnia's other independent region, the Bosniak-Croat Federation, has given given the green light to three companies to start building wind farms with total capacity of 138 MW. Several developers wish to add a further 320 MW in wind capacity in Bosnia in the following years.