The shale gas revolution will be "very painful for many parts of  the world," with the U.S. potentially the globe's new swing producer, the head of  BP told CNBC on Tuesday.   The nascent shale industry—in which "unconventional" gas is  drilled from the ground through hydraulic fracturing or  "fracking"—is heavily dominated by the U.S. It has boomed  in recent years, partly as a result of access to cheap financing,  helping to push global oil prices to record lows.   BP CEO Bob Dudley told CNBC that the "revolution" meant the U.S. might supersede Saudi Arabia as the world's major  swing oil producer, able to alter its production to balance  supply and demand.   He saw the price of oil—which has recovered somewhat this  year but is still down around 40 percent from the $100+ levels  seen before July 2014—remaining "lower for  longer."  Read MorePipe dream: Why US oil  will never go it alone  "There will undoubtedly be stress out there if oil prices stay  lower," Dudley said.  Patrick Pouyanne, the CEO of French oil giant Total, added that there would be a "lag time"  before declining production costs affected shale output.   "It will have an impact on the supply of U.S. shale oil or shale  gas, but not immediately," he told CNBC at a seminar of the  Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) on Wednesday in Vienna.   Dudley warned that there could be further  consolidation in the energy industry if oil prices remained low,  but that he saw BP as neither "predator nor prey"  currently.   Along with shale gas production, the refusal of OPEC to cut production is viewed  as a factor in the tumble in oil prices. The body will hold a key  meeting on Friday at which it is expected, once again, to hold  production at 30 million barrels of oil per day. Read MoreSaudi oil minister 'not  stressed' as OPEC meet looms  Dudley said that the "winners" from low oil prices were "clearly"  importers like China, India, Indonesia and much of Europe. Even  the U.S. was a beneficiary, he said, because the coastal states  are predominately net importers of oil rather than  exporters.   He added that BP intended to maintain its presence  in Russia,  despite tensions with the West, with no plans to sell its 20  percent stake in Rosneft. The Russia oil company is  majority-owned by the Russian state and CEO Igor Sechin has close  ties to Vladimir  Putin.  Read MoreRosneft chief  earns up to $4.7M in basic salary  "We stay out of the politics," said Dudley, adding, "We have a  lot of experience in Russia … our commitment is to remain."  Total's Pouyanne added that the price of oil was not only a  question of supply and demand, but of geopolitics.   "When you see the situation today in the Middle East compared to  last year, there is quite a lot of turmoil," he told CNBC. 