  Oil reversed gains in post-settlement trade Tuesday after API  data showed a bigger than expected rise in inventory.   Crude inventories rose by 9.9 million barrels in the week to Feb.  26 to 517.1 million, compared with analysts' expectations for an  increase of 3.6 million barrels.  Oil markets had risen as much 2 percent on Tuesday, maintaining  their  charge higher after a Wall Street rally helped turn  around crude prices depressed initially by expectations that U.S.  inventories had hit another record high.   Russian Energy Minister Alexander Novak's remarks that oil firms  in the country support a proposal to maintain average production  at January's levels also supported crude prices, traders  said.   Russian President Vladimir Putin spoke of "more radical" measures  to balance the global oil market, on top of a production freeze  plan jointly pursued by Moscow with Saudi Arabia, Qatar and  Venezuela.  Brent crude  futures, the global benchmark for crude oil, traded up 7 cents at $36.64 a barrel after settling up 24 cents, or 0.6  percent, at $36.81 a barrel, above a session low at $35.95. U.S. crude futures traded up 14 cents at $33.89 a barrel, after closing up 65  cents, or 2 percent, at $34.40 a barrel, after an intraday low at  $33.37.   "Stock markets have been steady and consistently stronger today,"  David Thompson, broker at Washington-based Powerhouse, said,  explaining the turn around in oil.   Wall Street's key index for U.S. stocks, the S&P 500, rose  nearly 2 percent, hitting near two-month highs. Equity markets  and oil have mostly traded in tandem for weeks now.   Crude prices have risen in seven of the past 12 sessions,  rebounding from 12-year lows hit below $30 a barrel between late  January and mid-February. The market is still down about  two-thirds from highs above $100 in mid-2014.   Some analysts were doubtful though that crude prices could  continue pushing higher without a significant drop in global  output.   "It still feels like this is a sucker's rally," said Matt Smith,  director of commodities research at New York-based Clipper Data.  "We've pushed higher on more talk and less action on supply  balancing."   Traders said some players who had been long oil had possibly  booked profit earlier in the session on analysts forecasts of     U.S. crude inventories rising 3.6 million barrels  last week to reach record highs of around 510 million barrels.  The American Petroleum Institute, an industry group, will issue  supply-demand data for last week at 4:30 p.m. (2130 GMT).   The U.S. Energy Information Administration will issue official  inventory data on Wednesday. 