BSOG signs gas sales deal with Engie for MGD Project in Black Sea 
21112018

0858
Natural GasBlack Sea Oil & Gas (BSOG) and its partners have agreed to supply natural gas produced from the Midia Gas Development Project (MGD Project) offshore Romania to Engie.In this regard, BSOG and its partners Petro Ventures Resources and Gas Plus International have inked a gas sales agreement pertaining to the MGD Project with the French electric utility's subsidiary Engie Energy Management Romania. The agreement will be subject to a final investment decision (FID) on the project.
 
Located in the Black Sea, the MGD Project is made up of the Ana and Doina gas fields, which were discovered in 2007 and 1995 respectively. Put together, the two fields have 320 Bcf P50 in contingent resources.
 
As per the gas sales agreement, Engie will buy gas produced from the Ana and Doina gas reservoirs over a minimum period of 10 years in accordance with Romanian law.
 
According to BSOG, the expected contractual volumes upon completion of the offshore gas project represent 0.5 bcm per year. The gas from the two fields will be delivered at Vadu entry point into the National Natural Gas Transmission System from Romania.
 
The project will also have a subsea gas production system over the Doina well which will be linked via an 18km pipeline with a new unmanned production platform located over Ana field. Further, a 126km gas pipeline will connect the Ana platform to the shore and to a new gas treatment plant, said BSOG.
Source: compelo.com
In this regard, BSOG and its partners Petro Ventures Resources and Gas Plus International have inked a gas sales agreement pertaining to the MGD Project with the French electric utility's subsidiary Engie Energy Management Romania. The agreement will be subject to a final investment decision (FID) on the project. Located in the Black Sea, the MGD Project is made up of the Ana and Doina gas fields, which were discovered in 2007 and 1995 respectively. Put together, the two fields have 320 Bcf P50 in contingent resources. As per the gas sales agreement, Engie will buy gas produced from the Ana and Doina gas reservoirs over a minimum period of 10 years in accordance with Romanian law. According to BSOG, the expected contractual volumes upon completion of the offshore gas project represent 0.5 bcm per year. The gas from the two fields will be delivered at Vadu entry point into the National Natural Gas Transmission System from Romania. The project will also have a subsea gas production system over the Doina well which will be linked via an 18km pipeline with a new unmanned production platform located over Ana field. Further, a 126km gas pipeline will connect the Ana platform to the shore and to a new gas treatment plant, said BSOG.Source: compelo.com