Bulgaria invites investment in Belene project 
13032019

1001
NuclearBulgaria's National Electricity Company (NEK) yesterday announced a call for selection of a strategic investor for the construction of Belene nuclear power plant on the Danube River near the Romanian border. The call also allows for expressions of interest to acquire a minority shareholding in the future project, as well as and/or to purchase electricity from the future power plant.The history of the project dates back to 2005, when the Bulgarian government approved construction of the plant. The following year, NEK awarded Atomstroyexport (ASE), a subsidiary of Russia's Rosatom, the contract to build two 1000 MWe reactors at Belene. The Bulgarian government scrapped the project in 2012 amid difficulties in attracting investors to the project.
 
The project was cancelled by parliament, but later talks took place with Rosatom about the possibility of installing one of the reactors at Bulgaria's Kozloduy nuclear power plant and selling the second one to a third party. An alternative is the privately financed completion of Belene.
 
On 7 June 2018, the Bulgarian parliament voted to abolish the moratorium on the construction of the Belene power plant and the aim of the government now is to complete the project through funding by a strategic investor.
Source: world-nuclear-news.org
The history of the project dates back to 2005, when the Bulgarian government approved construction of the plant. The following year, NEK awarded Atomstroyexport (ASE), a subsidiary of Russia's Rosatom, the contract to build two 1000 MWe reactors at Belene. The Bulgarian government scrapped the project in 2012 amid difficulties in attracting investors to the project. The project was cancelled by parliament, but later talks took place with Rosatom about the possibility of installing one of the reactors at Bulgaria's Kozloduy nuclear power plant and selling the second one to a third party. An alternative is the privately financed completion of Belene. On 7 June 2018, the Bulgarian parliament voted to abolish the moratorium on the construction of the Belene power plant and the aim of the government now is to complete the project through funding by a strategic investor.Source: world-nuclear-news.org