Bulgaria to start work on transit gas pipeline from Turkey to Serbia by year-end 
03122018

0919
Natural GasBulgaria's parliament adopted on Friday changes to the country's energy strategy, mandating gas transmission system operator Bulgartransgaz to start work, by the end of the year, on expanding the gas infrastructure system from the border with Turkey to the border with Serbia.After a final decision on the investment project has been made, Bulgartransgaz will launch a public procurement procedure with an estimated value of 2.29 billion levs ($1.3 billion/1.2 billion euro), VAT excluded, for making the necessary expansions of Bulgaria's gas infrastructure system, according to the updated energy strategy published on the website of the parliament.
 
Works under the contract must be completed by the end of 2019. The final investment decision depends on successful signing of binding capacity allocation agreements under an Open Season procedure.
 
Bulgaria's government has received an official notification from Russia's Gazprom for participation in the market test, which practically means that the section of the TurkStream pipeline for transit of Russian natural gas to Europe will cross Bulgaria, Sofia-based media quoted Bulgarian energy minister Temenuzhka Petkova as saying in parliament on Friday.
 
In addition to using its existing gas transmission infrastructure Bulgaria will have to build a new gas pipeline of 484 km length to the border with Serbia, a new pipeline of 11 km length to the border with Turkey, as well as two compressor stations. Earlier this month, Bulgartransgaz said it invited companies to participate in Phase 3 of a market survey on the demand for new transmission capacity from the border of Turkey to the border of Serbia. The deadline for applications is December 10, 2018.
Source: seenews.com
After a final decision on the investment project has been made, Bulgartransgaz will launch a public procurement procedure with an estimated value of 2.29 billion levs ($1.3 billion/1.2 billion euro), VAT excluded, for making the necessary expansions of Bulgaria's gas infrastructure system, according to the updated energy strategy published on the website of the parliament. Works under the contract must be completed by the end of 2019. The final investment decision depends on successful signing of binding capacity allocation agreements under an Open Season procedure. Bulgaria's government has received an official notification from Russia's Gazprom for participation in the market test, which practically means that the section of the TurkStream pipeline for transit of Russian natural gas to Europe will cross Bulgaria, Sofia-based media quoted Bulgarian energy minister Temenuzhka Petkova as saying in parliament on Friday. In addition to using its existing gas transmission infrastructure Bulgaria will have to build a new gas pipeline of 484 km length to the border with Serbia, a new pipeline of 11 km length to the border with Turkey, as well as two compressor stations. Earlier this month, Bulgartransgaz said it invited companies to participate in Phase 3 of a market survey on the demand for new transmission capacity from the border of Turkey to the border of Serbia. The deadline for applications is December 10, 2018.Source: seenews.com