Carbon capture cooperation between Europe and China 
13022018

1641
RenewableChinese and European energy and research organizations initiated a common project to generate power without emitting carbon dioxide.The Chinese-European Emission-Reducing Solutions (CHEERS) research and development scheme is designed by eight project partners, counting Norway's SINTEF Energi, Tsinghua University and Zhejiang University from China and Total from France.
 
The stakeholders plan to develop a petcoke-fired 3MW demonstration power plant in the Sichuan region of China, which is likely to be one of the most extensive facilities of its kind globally.

In the process of power generation, carbon dioxide emissions will be instantly captured without being released into the atmosphere, which will be deposited underground or reutilized to make valuable chemicals.
 
The electricity and steam generated from hydrocarbons will be used by energy retailers in other industrial sites.

The four-year project is estimated at approximately EUR20 million and is backed by the EU and China's Ministry of Science and Technology.
The Chinese-European Emission-Reducing Solutions (CHEERS) research and development scheme is designed by eight project partners, counting Norway's SINTEF Energi, Tsinghua University and Zhejiang University from China and Total from France. The stakeholders plan to develop a petcoke-fired 3MW demonstration power plant in the Sichuan region of China, which is likely to be one of the most extensive facilities of its kind globally.
In the process of power generation, carbon dioxide emissions will be instantly captured without being released into the atmosphere, which will be deposited underground or reutilized to make valuable chemicals. The electricity and steam generated from hydrocarbons will be used by energy retailers in other industrial sites.
The four-year project is estimated at approximately EUR20 million and is backed by the EU and China's Ministry of Science and Technology.