Centrica trumpets distributed energy 
15102018

0859
RenewableDistributed energy, including onsite generation and storage, could deliver potential carbon dioxide emission savings of 137 million tonnes by 2030 in the UK, according to a new report by Centrica.The 'Distributed Energy: Powering Sustainability' report said the savings could be made if 50% of organisations in the industry, health and the hospitality and leisure sectors switch to distributed energy.
 
This equates to 11% of the three sectors' existing carbon footprint or 3% of the country's total carbon emissions by 2030.
 
Other shifts companies can make from centralised supply include demand side response, energy efficiency, combined heat and power and energy insight.
 
"Falling upfront costs, new financing options including zero-capital investment plans and the ability to create revenue from generation assets are driving the uptake of this new energy technology," the report said.
 
It added that the deployment of distributed energy in the future will become the norm for businesses and large organisations. New technologies will also include green gas and smart grids.
 
Centrica added that in order to foster innovation in all these areas the right political, fiscal and regulatory frameworks need to be in place.
Source: renews.biz
The 'Distributed Energy: Powering Sustainability' report said the savings could be made if 50% of organisations in the industry, health and the hospitality and leisure sectors switch to distributed energy. This equates to 11% of the three sectors' existing carbon footprint or 3% of the country's total carbon emissions by 2030. Other shifts companies can make from centralised supply include demand side response, energy efficiency, combined heat and power and energy insight. "Falling upfront costs, new financing options including zero-capital investment plans and the ability to create revenue from generation assets are driving the uptake of this new energy technology," the report said. It added that the deployment of distributed energy in the future will become the norm for businesses and large organisations. New technologies will also include green gas and smart grids. Centrica added that in order to foster innovation in all these areas the right political, fiscal and regulatory frameworks need to be in place.Source: renews.biz