  Shares of Chevron gave up about 2 percent of their value  in pre-market trading Friday as the oil giant turned in quarterly  results that badly missed estimates.  Chevron executives pointed to lower margins in its refining  business and tax charges as drags on earnings during a conference  call. They also said layoffs were largely behind them, but the  company would continue looking for ways to drive down costs.The company also said it will be able to fund spending and dividends in 2017 with cash generated from operations, following a downturn that forced oil giants and smaller drillers alike to tap debt and other to sources to pay for normal business operations.  "Our 2016 earnings reflect the low oil and gas prices we saw  during the year," Chairman and CEO John Watson said in a  statement. "We responded aggressively to those conditions,  cutting capital and operating expenses by $14  billion."   Chief Financial Officer Patricia Yarrington said on the  conference call Chevron is considering more assets sales.  "Additional opportunities are in progress and many will close in  2017," she said.  Last month, the company said it would lower its capital spending  for a fourth consecutive year. Chevron's $19.8 billion program  for 2017 will focus on projects with shorter cycles and higher  returns aimed at producing oil and gas within two years.  That includes more drilling in the the U.S. Permian basin,  located in Texas and New Mexico, which is leading the nation's  shale oil recovery, Watson said. The company said it was operating 10 oil rigs  in the region and planning to add another about every eight  weeks, he said on Friday.  Chevron also provided updates on its critical Gorgon liquefied  natural gas project, which experienced some  shutdowns in 2016, as well as its Wheatstone natural gas  hub.Watson acknowledged the first phase of Gorgon's ramp-up missed expectations and said Chevron would apply those lessons to future phases there and at Wheatstone. He said the next phase of Gorgon would start processing LNG early in the second quarter. Phase one of Wheatstone is scheduled for mid-2017, with phase two expected six to eight months later.  The company reported fourth-quarter earnings of $415 million, or  22 cents a share, on revenue of $31.5 billion. Analysts had  expected Chevron to earn 64 cents on revenue of $33.3  billion, according to a consensus estimate from Thomson Reuters.  In the year-ago period, Chevron reported a loss of $588 million,  or 31 cents a share, shortly before oil prices hit 12-year  lows.  Low crude oil and gas prices throughout much of 2016 pushed the  oil giant to a loss for the year. For 2016, Chevron reported a  loss of $497 million, or 27 cents a share.  Cash flow, a key measure of corporate health in the oil and gas  industry, was $12.8 billion in 2016, down from $19.5 billion the  previous year.  Chevron spent $22.4 billion on capital projects and exploration  last year, down from $34 billion in 2015, reflecting the industry  trend of reducing expenses to weather the downturn.   Chevron saw results improve from the year-ago period in its  upstream business, which includes exploration and production of  fossil fuels. The company chalked that up to lower exploration  and operating expenses and its oil and gas fetching a higher  price.  Oil prices stabilized above $50 a barrel in the fourth quarter  after OPEC and other major oil producers agreed to cut  production.  In the downstream segment, which includes refining and marketing  fuel, Chevron saw fourth-quarter profits slide both in the United  States and abroad. The company broke even in its U.S. downstream  business, compared with profits of $496 million a year ago.  Integrated oil companies such as Chevron have seen their refining  margins shrink on the rising price of crude oil, the raw material  for many fuels. Throughout much of the oil price downturn that  began in 2014, low crude costs boosted refining margins.  Revenues for the quarter were $30 billion, up 7 percent from  sales of $28 billion a year ago.    On Wednesday, the San Ramon, California-based oil giant announced  a quarterly dividend of $1.08 a share, unchanged from the  previous quarter, when it hiked the shareholder payout by a  penny. Correction: This story has been updated to reflect that  John Watson made the comments on the conference call about  Chevron projects in the Permian and Australia.