Investors looking for the upside that typically comes with  aggressive, risk-oriented energy companies can find similar returns in the more defensive Chevron, according to Cowen and Co.  The oil major is Cowen analyst Sam Margolin's top pick for 2016,  he told CNBC on Tuesday. The firm has a $122 target on  shares of Chevron, a 34 percent premium to the current price at just above  $91.   The average price target on the stock is $99.32, according to FactSet.  In addition to a healthy balance sheet with little debt relative  to its spending plans, Chevron has a number of levers it can pull in the face of an oil rout that has slashed crude prices by roughly two-thirds in the last 18 months.   "We think it has a lot of upside as oil prices recover. They're  pulling a lot of spending out of their profile, and at the same  time they've got a lot of growth projects coming on this year  that are going to contribute to volumes and growth," Margolin said in a "Squawk on the Street" interview.     Chevron announced earlier this month it would cut capital spending  by 24 percent in 2016 to $26.6 billion. The company will not  issue production forecasts until it reports earnings in January,  but management previously said it expects output growth of 13  to 15 percent — about 2.9 million to 3 million barrels per  day — by the end of 2017.  Margolin is bullish on the company's assets in the Permian Basin,  a prolific and well-developed area in western Texas. A number of  drillers have concentrated operations there as they seek to  exploit their most productive assets in the face of a protracted  oil price decline.In a note, Margolin said Cowen believes the Permian position can  provide short-cycle growth and offset 30 percent of  Chevron's oil production declines, which are the result of lower  capital spending.   "What's important for Chevron is as they lower spending and  really slow their growth profile in 2017 and beyond, the Permian  can kind of fill in the gaps," he told CNBC.  Maintaining production while reining in spending is the defining  challenge for U.S. unconventional oil producers, who face high  costs for extracting oil and gas relative to OPEC producers.  "It's easy to ramp production [in the Permian]," Margolin said.  "It's not necessarily cheap. The operating costs aren't, say,  competitive with OPEC, but certainly within the unconventional or  shale landscape, the Permian is a place you can put money and  continue to grow even at lower prices and even as your overall  spending profile comes down, and that's really the key piece for  that."  Chevron has a clear path toward cash flow neutrality beginning  with its first shipments of liquefied natural gas from its Gorgon  facility in Australia in the first part of 2016.   Factoring in the start of operations at Chevron's Wheatstone  Project — Australia's first natural gas hub — Cowen  sees the major's business in the country contributing $2 billion  to $3 billion in free cash flow. That would help Chevron close a  roughly $11 billion funding gap Cowen projects for Chevron this  year.