China has more oil production abroad than at home 
14032018

1350
Oil MarketChina is one of the biggest oil consumers heavily reliant on imports. Production from assets the Chinese state oil firms own abroad surpasses internal production, increasing the state dependency on foreign oil.The problem that occurs is that much of the oil production by these foreign assets does not end up in China for many reasons, including transmission costs and the difference in income if it gets exported to another market rather than imported into China.
 
China's oil expansion abroad is very likely to continue. The nation does not have many other options. China is already one of the biggest oil field operators in the North Sea. It also has an important presence in Kazakhstan, as well as in Latin America, most crucial in Venezuela, where China is one of the two huge lenders to the South American nation, and it holds most of the debt in oil-for-cash deals.
 
Currently, China is looking north as well. Together with Russia, the country is testing the potentially huge undiscovered hydrocarbon potential of the next border, made more accessible by climate change. It is exactly climate change that has boosted China's interest in Arctic oil and gas: as the polar ice melts, new transport paths open up, making the commercial use of Arctic oil and gas feasible for China.
The problem that occurs is that much of the oil production by these foreign assets does not end up in China for many reasons, including transmission costs and the difference in income if it gets exported to another market rather than imported into China. China's oil expansion abroad is very likely to continue. The nation does not have many other options. China is already one of the biggest oil field operators in the North Sea. It also has an important presence in Kazakhstan, as well as in Latin America, most crucial in Venezuela, where China is one of the two huge lenders to the South American nation, and it holds most of the debt in oil-for-cash deals. Currently, China is looking north as well. Together with Russia, the country is testing the potentially huge undiscovered hydrocarbon potential of the next border, made more accessible by climate change. It is exactly climate change that has boosted China's interest in Arctic oil and gas: as the polar ice melts, new transport paths open up, making the commercial use of Arctic oil and gas feasible for China.