  As analysts vie to produce the most bearish oil price forecast, one pro  has raised the game, telling CNBC that crude might fall below $10  per barrel within the next 10 years.   Increasingly efficient extraction techniques, improvements in  clean energy production and battery storage will push crude  prices to near-zero and place huge stress on energy and utility  companies, the head of a London-based asset management firm  said.   "I believe oil will follow a heavily volatile path around a  declining trend-line, which will take it one day to sub-$10. I  would be surprised if that was not to happen already within the  next 10 years," Francesco Filia, CEO of Fasanara Capital, told  CNBC via email on Thursday.   With crude futures trading around $44-$45 per barrel, supply and  demand for oil remains out of balance. WTI and  crude prices have largely  rallied since mid-January, but remain far below the peaks above  $100 per barrel reached before the price slump began in June  2014.  Filia said extraction productivity gains would force more crude  on to the market, which is already saturated as a result of the  U.S.-led revolution in shale gas, OPEC's high level of output and  increased production from Iraq and Iran.   "The most fundamental headwinds come, in my eyes, on the supply  side, and are due to exponential technologies increasing the  productivity of oil extraction, together with that of clean  energy production. The cost of solar panels, for example, is  decreasing at alarming speed (exponentially) and closing the gap  on glowingly expensive fossil fuel extraction," he told  CNBC.   "Another example of technological progress affects the  productivity of oil rigs, which went up four-fold in just a year,  last year (leading to markets being surprised by increasing  production and inventories in the face of declining rig count),"  Filia added.   U.S. oil rig productivity — measured by the number of wells  a rig can drill each month — has risen steadily since  2011. This is as a result of pad drill technology that means rigs  can tap several wells from the same place more easily.   Filia's long-term forecast for oil prices is far more bearish  than some. The International Energy Agency expects crude to trade  between $50 and $60 per barrel into the 2020s before edging  higher, under its "low oil price scenario."  Meanwhile, Deloitte forecast at the end of 2015 that WTI prices  would steadily rise until 2022 and 2023, when they would average  $80 per barrel.  Filia thought the biggest hit to oil prices would come from a  "breakthrough" in the battery market, which would make it  possible to store higher volumes of energy, and cheaper.   "We will wake up one day and find out that batteries have come to  cost half the price and are able to store double the energy  … Batteries are key, as today, you still can't store  efficiently and effectively the infinite energy (solar and wind)  produced during the day, and spend it when it is most needed, at  night. The day you can store it, and that day is close due to  exponential technologies, oil is history," he said.   Follow CNBC International on Twitter and Facebook.