  Four years after the Arab Spring, the lynchpin of OPEC faces more  social unrest, as Saudis digest unaccustomed austerity amid  plummeting oil prices, costly military intervention in Yemen and  increased tension with Iran.   The ultra-hardline regime in Saudi Arabia launched an austerity  budget late last year to help combat a ballooning deficit. It is  even considering listing shares in its ginormous state-owned oil  company, Saudi Aramco, in a bid to raise funds.   The curtailment of mass subsidies on utilities and lavish public  spending marks a change, as the Arab state has previously been  generous in redistributing its massive oil wealth — partly  as a means to stave off public restiveness with absolutist  rule.   "With a decline in social spending and a reduction in subsidies  comes the risk of rising domestic turmoil, as highlighted by the  Arab Spring in 2011 when high inflation, lower growth and  inequality resulted in mass demonstrations across the Middle  East," Alberto Gallo, head of global macro credit research, said  in a research note last week.Saudi Arabia brutally repressed protests during the Arab Spring  in 2011, when uprisings sprung up across the Middle East. While  rulers were forced out of power in Tunisia, Egypt, Libya and  Yemen and destabilized in Bahrain and Syria, Saudi's theocratic  monarchy remained entrenched.   The House of Saud continues to take an extremely tough line on  any hint of political dissent, which reportedly remains a major  concern for leaders. It passed a law in 2014 that categorized a  broad array of non-violent offenses as "terrorism," including  "endangering national unity" and "harming the reputation of the  state."   A crackdown through 2015 culminated in the execution of 47 people  in a single day this month, shocking the world and ultimately  leading to the cessation of diplomatic relations between Saudi  Arabia and long-term rival, Iran.   Among those executed was Nimr al-Nimr, a high-profile cleric of  Shiite Islam, a minority group in Saudi Arabia that claim  persecution by the regime. While Saudi Arabia says that al-Nimr  was executed for terrorism offences, critics says his real crime  was denouncing the ruling dynasty and helping organize  anti-government demonstrations.   His death has stirred tension in the east of Saudi Arabia, where  the majority of its Shiite population of roughly 20 million is  situated.  "Prolonged low oil prices combined with escalation of tensions  between Iran and Saudi Arabia could lead to a break out of  violence in the eastern province of the kingdom, where most of  the Shiite population is concentrated," Garbis Iradian, chief  economist for the Middle East and North Africa at the Institute  of International Finance, told CNBC.   "While the authorities could repress any violence, there is a  risk that such violence could get out of control and spread to  other areas in the kingdom if the economy contracts for more than  one year and national unemployment increases significantly," he  added.   Saudi Arabia's economy grew by 3.4 percent in 2015, according to  the International Monetary Fund (IMF), which sees growth slowing  to 2.2 percent this year. That is far below the recent peak of  10.0 percent, posted in 2011, when crude oil prices averaged  around $110 per barrel.   Perhaps more worryingly for the House of Saud, youth unemployment  — associated in many countries with social unrest in  the wake of the global financial crisis — is extremely  high. Nearly 30 percent of those aged 15-24 years-old were  unemployed in 2014, the most recent year for which the World Bank  has data. This figure has held fairly steady since 2007.   A young and growing population means that high volumes of workers  enter the Saudi Arabian labor force each year. The challenge is  acerbated by the fact that private sector jobs are often filled  by expatriates. Plus, the job market is becoming more competitive  as female participation increases — albeit slowly and  from a very low level.    Luay Al-Khatteeb, a foreign policy fellow at the Brookings  Institution, said that youth unemployment was "crippling, if not  seriously undermining the government's hold on power" and that  Saudi Arabia needed to create at least 3 million new jobs by 2020  to combat the problem.  "The 'mother of all problems' facing the nation is not a growing  budget deficit, regional terrorism and sectarian tensions, but  the growing and endemic youth unemployment that continues to  endanger Saudi Arabia's national security," Al-Khatteeb said in a  comment piece posted last month that also appeared in The  Huffington Post.  "Saudi Arabia needs to increase public-private sector cooperation  to absorb millions of unemployed youth and avoid rendering them  to the abyss of terrorism or civil unrest," he added. 