  Ahead of Thursday's OPEC meeting, and in light of the  fact that so many things are going right in the U.S. economy, Jim Cramer thinks it is time to talk oil prices, with a  side of gravy.  There tends to be a frame of mind among many that oil prices are  wild and could go anywhere—that nobody knows what will happen.  Cramer is calling bluff and thinks maybe  oil has finally reached its sweet spot. With a fabulous 3.9 percent  growth rate in the U.S. announced on Tuesday, it looks like we will continue to  accelerate. That means that the demand for oil will grow  as well. Yet, there is a deceleration of  growth in almost every other country but India, which puts America in a novel position.  "I think it is safe to say that when it comes to demand, we are  counterbalancing pretty much everyone else," the "Mad Money" host  said.  With the economy in perspective, Cramer took out his crystal ball  and is predicting that oil prices will not rise higher following  the OPEC meeting.  The Saudis cannot allow oil prices  to go lower than they already are without risking a break-up of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, Cramer said.  Even though, in Cramer's perspective, the rest of the nations in  OPEC are brainwashed into following the Saudis to stop the U.S.  energy independence, they know when to stop. In addition, the  government budgets of Venezuela  and Nigeria need prices to stay  right where they are.  Onshore in the U.S., though our rules prohibit the exportation of  oil from 48 states, we can still export gasoline. This is keeping  the world of oil in balance.  Even the technology that we  are using these days won't infringe on oil budgets, as long as  they don't go lower than the mid $70s.  Hence, the U.S. has  the ability to maintain current prices even if OPEC decides that  higher prices are the way to go.  "Most Americans, I think, believe that gasoline's down on a blip  and will go right back up. But we are producing too much to have  that happen," added Cramer.  He thinks that supply and demand are actually equal right in the  mid $70s, where it is now. So, it looks like oil could have hit its  sweet spot, and the "correct" prices are here to stay, give or  take $5. ---------------------------------------------------------- Read more from Mad Money with Jim  CramerCramer Remix: This isn't dead yet! Cramer: Check your attitude, Dan  Loeb Cramer's recipe for high prices in  2015 ----------------------------------------------------------   If this is indeed the equilibrium for oil, then Cramer advises investors to  be prepared that the American consumer will continue to spend  money elsewhere into the economy.  "That is, in many ways, the perfect world for the economy and the  stock market and is worth remembering whenever you get too  bearish about our current situation."  Questions for Cramer?  Call Cramer: 1-800-743-CNBC  Want to take a deep dive into Cramer's world? Hit him up! Mad  Money Twitter -  Jim Cramer  Twitter - Facebook - Instagram - Vine  Questions, comments, suggestions for the "Mad Money" website?  madcap@cnbc.com