  Relative political stability, economic resurgence in some of the  larger nations and the emergence of reform-oriented governments  make emerging economies an attractive investment target for next  year, according to Swiss investment bank Credit Suisse.In a media briefing on its 2017 investment outlook, Credit  Suisse's global head of investment strategy, Nannette Hechler  Fayd'herbe, said emerging markets (EM) have evolved to become  more resilient to international developments over the last  decade, such as the political uncertainty gripping Europe and  U.S. President-elect Donald Trump's plans to hit the reset button  on U.S. trade policies."(EMs) have a lower exposure to an export-driven (growth) model  than is generally assumed. They have a better, balanced-type of  growth model," said Hechler Fayd'herbe, adding a large majority  of EM countries have only a third of their gross domestic product   (GDP) that is dependent on international trade.Large EMs in Asia and Latin America, for example, have the  advantage of a large domestic consumer base, many of whom are  just entering the middle class, which allows them to look inwards  for growth.The world's two most populous countries, China and India, are  still growing at twice the pace of global growth; recently in its  second quarter of fiscal 2016, India saw its economy grow by 7.3  percent annually, whereas China's most recent factory  activity data showed continued expansion in its manufacturing and  services sectors.  Credit Suisse highlighted three notable investment themes for  2017 where emerging markets looked attractive.   The investment bank said it was looking for sources of yield in  countries where the political and economic risks were reasonable,  and added there was a need to continue diversifying fixed income  investments, particularly in markets where corporate credit still  played a big part."We particularly find emerging market debt in hard currency, but  also in local currency, as an important part of investment  strategy for next year," Hechler Fayd'herbe said, adding the bank  held a favorable view toward Latin America as it offered higher  yields than EMs elsewhere.  Hard currencies are usually those that are relatively stable and  widely accepted for financial transactions such as the U.S.  dollar, euro, yen and the British pound.In emerging Asia, Credit Suisse prefers Indonesia. Current  bid-yield on the 10-year Indonesian government bond note is 8.07  percent versus a 2.43 percent bid-yield on the 10-year Treasury  note.Indonesia is considered one of the stronger-performing EMs by  some analysts, as President Joko Widodo continues  with a series of reforms; in his two years in office, he has  abolished gasoline subsidies and launched a tax amnesty program  to recover tax revenues.   Stock markets have had a volatile year, driven by unexpected  political outcomes which were not well priced-in and thus  resulted in periods of volatility.Chinese markets started the year with a massive sell-off, but  have somewhat recovered since, following a series of government  reforms to stabilize the bifurcate economy and make China's  financial markets more open to international investors.The  composite, however, is still down 8.25 percent  year-to-date, compared to the broad MSCI Asia Pacific ex-Japan  index's 5.50 percent gain for the same period.   Chinese equities as well as Hong Kong stocks are expected to lead  regional equities in 2017, according to Credit Suisse, due a  recovery in earnings, attractive valuations and buoyant liquidity  that will accelerate south/north-bound inflows. Adding to further  north-south inflows will be the launch of the Shenzhen-Hong Kong  Stock Connect, which is set to formally open on Dec. 5 and  would allow Chinese investors to buy Hong Kong shares and vice  versa.Mainland sectors that look attractive include technology,  insurance and other high-growth sectors as China gradually turns  to its domestic economy and services sector to drive growth. Exporters are also expected to benefit from a gradual, expected  depreciation of the yuan, according to Credit Suisse.   Following OPEC's Wednesday announcement that it would reduce  global oil supply by 1.2 million barrels a day, oil prices have  soared as much as 16 percent. Credit Suisse believes one way to  play the oil trade would be to look at energy-related currencies,  particularly the Norwegian krone and the Russian ruble.  The ruble is also set to be one of the few currencies that could  fight against outright dollar strength, according to Heng Koon  How, senior foreign exchange investment strategist at the bank.  In early November, the World Bank said Russia's economic outlook  had improved and its economy was set to grow by 1.5 percent in  2017.  Overall, the Swiss investment bank believes financial markets  will likely remain challenging in 2017 and the central economic  forecast is for global GDP growth to accelerate to 3.4 percent  from 3.1 percent in the current year.  — Follow CNBC International on Twitter and Facebook.