U.S. oil prices ended lower Monday, ahead of the first big  snowstorm this year in the country's Northeast, while benchmark  Brent crude fell after pledges of no policy change by the top oil  exporter Saudi Arabia after King Abdullah's death.  An 11-year high in the U.S. dollar against other major  currencies, and fears of fresh instability in the euro zone after  a decisive Greek election victory by the Syriza party also  limited any potential rebound in oil, traders said.  Light snow began falling on the U.S. East Coast on Monday  morning, the first signs of a potentially historic blizzard that  officials predicted could dump up to 3 feet of snow in the coming  day, snarling transportation for millions of people.Read More  Snow of 'potentially historic' proportions aims for Northeastern  US  The National Weather Service issued a blizzard warning for  New York City and surrounding areas between coastal New Jersey  and Connecticut, beginning 1 p.m. EST on Monday and  worsening overnight into Tuesday morning. It warned of two days  of winter storms across the East Coast, from Pennsylvania to  Maine.  "Crude is getting some help from supportive heating oil ahead of  the blizzard, although with all the flight cancellations, it  might end up being a bearish event on oil demand," said Phil  Flynn, analyst at Chicago's Price Futures Group. West Texas  Intermediate crude for March  closed down 44 cents, at $45.15 a barrel.  March  was  trading at $48.15 per barrel, down 63 cents.   U.S. heating oil rose 1.2 percent to $1.6656 per gallon. Read More  Traders said crude was pressured somewhat by Friday's news that  no time set for restarting a 90,000-barrel-per-day crude  distillation unit at BP Plc's  413,500-bpd refinery in Whiting, Indiana. The unit was shut a day  earlier for unplanned repairs, sources said.  Saudi Arabia's new king Salman pledged continuity in energy and  foreign policies on Friday and was quick to retain veteran oil  minister Ali al-Naimi, in a message aimed at calming a jittery  oil market.  The Saudis were pivotal to OPEC's decision in November not to cut  oil exports in order to preserve their market share amid a global  supply glut that has more than halved prices since June.  In Monday's early trade, Brent and U.S. crude turned positive  after Abdullah al-Badri, secretary-general of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting  Countries, said he thought prices may have reached their  bottom. But the market slipped soon after. Read MoreIt's downhill for US after Saudi king  dies: Experts  "It was a bit of an overreaction from his comments," said Olivier  Jakob, analyst at Petromatrix in Zug, Switzerland. "The only  voice that counts is from Saudi Arabia."  "To have a meaningful market impact we need to see some signs  coming out of Saudi Arabia that it will change," he said. Long Positions Cut  Money managers cut their net long U.S. crude futures and options  positions in the week to Jan. 20, the U.S. Commodity Futures  Trading Commission said on Friday.  Oil services firm Baker Hughes published data on Friday that  showed the number of U.S. oil rigs fell for a seventh straight  week to 1,317, the fewest since January 2013. Read MoreUS oil producers can't keep drilling at  $45 oil: Pickens  Germany-based Commerzbank said that output would remain high  in the short term but production from U.S. oil rigs would  continue to dwindle in the coming weeks, eventually supporting  prices.  "It is only a question of time before this is reflected in  decreased oil production," Commerzbank analysts said in a note to  clients on Monday.  "In our opinion, this indicates that prices will recover in the  second half of the year."