  U.S. crude prices managed to settle higher on Tuesday amid  worries about growing U.S. supplies, while benchmark  prices hoovered around the  psychologically important $80 a barrel mark.  "The theme remains the same in oil: We have no meaningful way to  cut production and the multi-year lows in prices that we're  hitting are feeding the hunt for even lower bottoms," said Gene  McGillian, senior analyst at Tradition Energy in Stamford,  Connecticut.  Brent was last down nearly $1 to $82 a barrel, after falling  earlier to $80.46, the lowest level since September 2010.  U.S. oil's West Texas Intermediate  crude futures settled up 54 cents at $77.94 per barrel, off a session low at  $76.42.  Industry group the American Petroleum Institute was expected to  report Tuesday afternoon that U.S. commercial crude stocks rose  last week while inventories of distillates fell and gasoline  supplies remained steady, a Reuters poll showed.  The U.S. Department of Energy's statistical arm the Energy  Information Administration will release its inventory data on  Wednesday.  The Reuters poll forecast crude stocks rose 300,000 barrels on  average last week. Read MoreLook out below! Oil is not done  falling   "You have suggestions of an anaemic demand story for oil last  week," said James Williams, energy economist at WTRG Economics in  London, Arkansas.  A strong dollar initially weighed on oil as the greenback hit a  seven-year high against the yen. By midmorning though, the dollar  was down against a basket of currencies, but crude prices  continued to slide.  Fear of supply disruptions in Libya, where a rival government  seized the country's capital and took control of its most  productive oilfield, El Sharara, helped limit the downside in oil  earlier in the session, traders said. Read More Oil climbs higher; Two  strategies  Falling crude prices have had little impact on shale oil drilling  in the United States, with output from the fastest-growing and  largest shale fields showing no sign of slowing, a separate EIA  report said on Monday.  JPMorgan slashed its 2015 Brent price forecast by $33 to $82 per  barrel on Monday, citing supply pressures in the Atlantic Basin  and the apparent inability of OPEC member states to work  cohesively to cut production.