U.S. crude settled at $44.84 per barrel on Friday's session, dropping $2.21 or 4.7 percent. The settle marks the lowest close since Jan. 28.Oil futures were little changed after the pace of rig reductions  in U.S. oilfields slowed moderately in the last week, according  to data from Baker Hughes.  The number of rigs exploring for oil in the United States fell by  56, compared with a 64-rig reduction in the prior week. Total  U.S. oil rigs stood at 922, compared with 1,461 at the same time  last year.Canadian drillers took 65 rigs offline in the last week, Baker Hughes reported. Read MoreIEA sees renewed pressure on oil prices  as glut worsens  U.S. crude earlier fell more than 4 percent after the  International Energy Agency said that a global oil glut is  building and U.S. oil production shows no signs of slowing.  The IEA, which advises industrialized countries, said in its  monthly report that the United States may soon run out of empty  tanks to store crude, which would put additional downward  pressure on prices. U.S. crude finished Friday's  session down $2.21 at $44.84.  fell $2.16 to $55.13.  "U.S. supply so far shows precious little sign of slowing down,"  the IEA said. "Quite to the contrary, it continues to defy  expectations."Read More  US DOE proposes buying up to 5M barrels of oil for strategic  reserve  While OPEC output  declined in February, global supply was up by 1.3 million barrels  per day year on year at 94 million bpd, led by a 1.4 million bpd  non-OPEC increase, the IEA said.  "The market will be more balanced in the second half, but there  is still massive oversupply in the first half," said Barbara  Lambrecht, an analyst at Commerzbank in Frankfurt.  "We still expect oil prices to fall in the coming weeks due to  rising inventories."  News of a deal to end a strike by U.S. refinery workers provided  some support because it could help to increase demand for crude  for processing in the world's biggest oil consumer, reducing U.S.  stockpiles that climbed last week to the highest level for this  time of year in more than 80 years. Read More   Still, forecasts of a tighter market to come may have to be  revised should Iran and six world powers reach a deal over its  nuclear program and lift sanctions that have limited Iranian oil  exports. The aim is to reach a framework nuclear agreement by the  end of March and full agreement by June 30.  "A question mark for the second half remains Iran, and the answer  to that is expected to come in over the next two weeks,"  Petromatrix analyst Olivier Jakob said.  Investors also kept an eye on Libya, where fighting has slowed  output. Production has varied between 410,000 bpd and 490,000 bpd  this week, a senior industry source said, higher than estimates  of February supply.