Oil slumped 5 percent to near six-year lows on Monday,  accelerating its months-long rout after Goldman Sachs slashed its short-term price forecasts and  Gulf producers showed no signs of curbing output.  U.S. crude  oil closed down  $2.29 at $46.07, its lowest since  April 2009.  was last down about $3 to  $47.24 a barrel, after dropping as low as $47.18, the lowest since March 18, 2009.  Read MoreCramer: 'Get negative on  everything' oil  Analysts at Goldman Sachs cut their three-month forecasts for  Brent to $42 a barrel from $80 and for the U.S. West Texas  Intermediate contract to $41 from $70 a barrel. The bank cut its  2015 Brent forecast to $50.40 a barrel from $83.75 and U.S. crude  to $47.15 a barrel from $73.75.  Despite declining investments in U.S. shale oil, the main driver  in the current supply glut, production will take longer to come  down, Goldman said in a report.  Tariq Zahir of Tyche Capital Advisors said a bottom was hard to  predict as prices varied so quickly. Read More7 ways to play oil and gold  "I figured we'd see $40 in the near term, but everything seems to  be happening quicker than expected," Zahir said. "You're going to  get some more margin call selling in here, there will be a  bounceback that will be sharp and violent." Walter Zimmerman of United-ICAP said the market's sharp  changes in the last few months make it impossible to predict an  average price for the year.  "In today's markets, that are so widely volatile, an average  price is completely useless," Zimmerman said.  "There's a million barrels a day of excess production," he said.  "That is what is driving the price." Read MoreWhy big banks may be vulnerable to oil  price drop  As OPEC's November decision not to curtail production in the face  of falling prices piles pressure on some group members,  Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro met Saudi Arabia's Crown  Prince Salman in Riyadh on Sunday as part of a diplomatic tour in  the Gulf to discuss falling oil prices.  However, Saudi Arabia, the world's biggest oil exporter, has said  it will not support prices by cutting production and ignored  calls from smaller OPEC members, including Venezuela, to react to  falling oil prices at the cartel's November meeting.  On Saturday, Iran vowed to help Venezuela stem the oil price  fall.