Danish firm to start two solar projects in US 
30082018

0841
SolarCopenhagen Infrastructure Partners (CIP) will start construction on the Misae and Sage solar photovoltaic (PV) projects in Texas and Utah, respectively with a capacity of 300 megawatts (MW) on behalf of the Copenhagen Infrastructure III (CI III) fund, the company announced on Wednesday.The projects represent the first of CIP's U.S. solar portfolio of approximately 1.1 gigawatts (GW) and the first of the company's large-scale solar projects within its renewable energy portfolio.
 
Global solar manufacturer and distributor Jinko Inc. will supply mono-crystalline solar panels for the project and the M.A. Mortenson Company will be responsible for construction and ongoing maintenance services.
 
"Misae is planned to begin commercial operations in the fourth quarter of 2019. Once operational, the project is expected to generate enough clean energy to power nearly 60,000 houses per year," the company said.
 
In addition, the Sage plant is a 58 MWac solar PV system located in Rich County, Utah. The plant is set to begin commercial operations in August 2019.
 
Once operational, the project is expected to generate enough clean energy to power nearly 14,000 houses per year.
Source: aa.com.tr
The projects represent the first of CIP's U.S. solar portfolio of approximately 1.1 gigawatts (GW) and the first of the company's large-scale solar projects within its renewable energy portfolio. Global solar manufacturer and distributor Jinko Inc. will supply mono-crystalline solar panels for the project and the M.A. Mortenson Company will be responsible for construction and ongoing maintenance services. "Misae is planned to begin commercial operations in the fourth quarter of 2019. Once operational, the project is expected to generate enough clean energy to power nearly 60,000 houses per year," the company said. In addition, the Sage plant is a 58 MWac solar PV system located in Rich County, Utah. The plant is set to begin commercial operations in August 2019. Once operational, the project is expected to generate enough clean energy to power nearly 14,000 houses per year.Source: aa.com.tr