Denmark may slow launch of Nord Stream 2 - Financial Times 
29072019

0916
Natural GasDenmark's permit for the construction of the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline must be obtained within the next few weeks, otherwise, the operator Nord Stream AG will simply not be able to complete the pipeline within a specified time period, British newspaper Financial Times has reported, referring to a senior official linked to Nord Stream 2. 
"Russia could miss the deadline to start pumping gas into Europe through the controversial Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline, unless Denmark approves construction in the waters for the next few weeks," the report said.
 
The pipeline launch should coincide with the expiry of an existing gas transit contract through Ukraine on December 31.
 
"If we do not get approval from the Danish in the next few weeks, we will not do the deadline," the official said.
 
The Nord Stream 2 project involves the construction of a new line of the pipeline from Russia across the Baltic Sea to Germany, in addition to the already operating Nord Stream gas pipeline.
 
Nord Stream 2 is wholly owned by Gazprom, but co-financed by five European energy companies: Shell, Engie, OMV, Wintershall and Uniper.
Source: ukrinform.net
 "Russia could miss the deadline to start pumping gas into Europe through the controversial Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline, unless Denmark approves construction in the waters for the next few weeks," the report said. The pipeline launch should coincide with the expiry of an existing gas transit contract through Ukraine on December 31. "If we do not get approval from the Danish in the next few weeks, we will not do the deadline," the official said. The Nord Stream 2 project involves the construction of a new line of the pipeline from Russia across the Baltic Sea to Germany, in addition to the already operating Nord Stream gas pipeline. Nord Stream 2 is wholly owned by Gazprom, but co-financed by five European energy companies: Shell, Engie, OMV, Wintershall and Uniper.Source: ukrinform.net