  More than half of the publicly traded companies in Houston  are oil and gas related. Nearly three-fourths of them have dipped  lower in the past 12 months.   Brian Busch, director of oil markets and business development at  Genscape, said not just Houston, but the entire world is facing  an oil supply-demand imbalance.   "We are oversupplied with crude production right now, given what  the world demand is, and until the economy picks up, it's going  to continue," he told CNBC's "Power Lunch" on Tuesday. "We have over 100 million  barrels of storage in tanks above where we were this time last  year."   Busch said he thinks U.S. oil production might see a decline of  another 800,000 barrels a day, especially when considering not  only the existing overproduction but also new output coming from  Brazil, Iran and potentially Libya.   He added that this global supply-demand imbalance isn't going to  correct itself anytime soon.   "Right now, I don't see it," Busch said. "I don't  see anything on the horizon that makes me believe economics are  going to pick up in China or Europe. And I certainly don't see  anything that makes me think that OPEC is going to blink or the Russians  are going to cut back."   One expert begs to differ.   Matt Portillo, managing director of equity research at Tudor,  Pickering, Holt & Co., thinks a big shift could be in oil's future.   "Over the next six months, supply-demand is going to start to  cause inventories to draw," he told CNBC's "Power Lunch" on  Tuesday. "As that occurs, we should start to see a very  significant correction in crude."   According to Portillo, this move could bring crude prices  closer to $70 a barrel by the fourth quarter.   In fact, he said this is a good time to begin investing in  the energy sector.   "Generally investors are underweight energy at the moment. As we  get into the back half of this year, investors will move to an  overweight position. That means the stocks could move materially  higher," he said.   Portillo named EOG Resources, Concho, Cimarex Energy, and Encana  as some of his favorite picks in this space.   Former Dallas Fed president Richard Fisher also holds an optimistic view on oil and the Texas economy.   "One of the things that I strive to correct is that Texas is not  just oil," he told CNBC's "Power Lunch" on Tuesday.   Fisher said 150,000 jobs were created in the state last year and  major job-producing sectors are not in the energy space. While that category is important to the Texas economy, Fisher said, "it  just doesn't stop us from moving forward."   In fact, only 2.5 percent of Texas' employment and about 12  percent of its output can be attributed to oil, gas and mining,  according to Fisher.   While Houston may be facing a slowdown, he said that job  growth in Dallas is at 4.2 percent and at 4.3 percent in Austin.  In fact, he said consumers are benefiting by lower oil  prices.   "The rest of the state is prospering," he added. "So this is a  very diversified economy led by hospitality, tourism; health care  is huge, business and financial services very large, and the  predominant real activity is coming from construction  statewide."   Fisher said although Houston has been a great leader in the state  economy, investors should remember that Texas is not defined  by a single city. Disclaimer