  The dollar fell on Tuesday as the greenback consolidated its position against most major currencies following a roller-coaster 24 hours which traders  say may just be a precursor to three weeks of risk-packed  events including the Federal Reserve's December policy meeting.After rising across the board and gaining more than 1.2 percent against the safe-haven Japanese yen following the release of stronger-than-expected U.S. third-quarter gross domestic product numbers, the dollar retraced much of its  gains on the day.  Even a reading on U.S. consumer confidence that showed the index at its highest level since July 2007 did not dissuade investors from selling the greenback as North American  trading picked up steam."Some people do trade off of headlines, but why should we react to what happened in the period ending in September  when instead we're looking forward to what will happen next  month?" said Marc Chandler, chief global currency strategist at  Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. "The markets are anticipatory  in nature."The , which tracks the greenback against a basket of six major rivals, scaled to a nearly 14-year peak  of 102.050 on Thursday before profit-taking and oil price jitters brought it back down to earth. It has continued to  move lower this week, but has remained in a tight range.   It was last down 0.34 percent to 100.99.The dollar was last up 0.44 percent against the  at  112.41 yen. The euro was up against the dollar at $1.0638.The modest pullback in the dollar's upward trajectory  seemed more a consolidation than a correction, Chandler said, and reflected the underlying trend in markets that are still expecting substantial fiscal stimulus from the administration  of U.S. President-elect Donald Trump and interest rate  increases from the Federal Reserve.Additionally, Wednesday's meeting of the Organization of  the Petroleum Exporting Countries and Sunday's referendum in  Italy still loom."We had a big move up in the dollar, the dollar was overextended and we've been consolidating and correcting at  the end of last week and yesterday," Chandler said. "I think we continue to do so today."  Sterling's move higher against the dollar was also backed  by UK data that showed lending to Britons expanded last month  at the fastest annual pace in 11 years, while mortgage  approvals were stronger than expected, bolstering the picture of  resilient consumer demand after June's Brexit vote.The pound rose 0.68 percent against the dollar to $1.2496.  — Follow CNBC International on Twitter and Facebook.