  A recovery in oil prices pushed the dollar higher against the yen and euro on  Tuesday, but it fell overall as sterling rose and the  oil-linked  gained.   With crude oil prices near their lowest in 13 years, senior  officials of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting  Countries renewed calls for rival producers to cut supply  alongside its members.   That helped push oil prices further above $30 a barrel as markets  hoped OPEC and Russia could be getting closer to a deal to reduce  the supply of crude in the market.   The bounce in oil prices helped improve markets' risk appetite,  leading investors to unwind positions in currencies seen as less  risky and boosting the dollar.  The dollar gained 0.13 percent against the  to 118.43, while  the euro was up 0.09 percent at  $1.0857.   Both currencies tend to do well during times of financial market  stress, since Japan and the euro zone usually run current account  surpluses.  The dollar rose to its highest against the Swiss franc since Dec.  3, and last gained 0.55 percent to 1.104 francs.   But oil's rebound also provided major relief to the Canadian  dollar, which has been battered in recent weeks.   The dollar fell 1.5 percent against the loonie to C$1.4074, a  two-week low.The increase in risk appetite also encouraged investors to take  profits on sterling, which had fallen as low as $1.4171 in  European trading. It was last up 0.77 percent at $1.4356.  The dollar index fell 0.31 percent despite positive U.S. economic  data showing a surprisingly large boost in consumer confidence  and a rise in U.S. home prices. The data went largely unnoticed  by markets, because investors are awaiting word from the Federal  Reserve on interest rates on Wednesday, said Omer Esiner, chief  market analyst at Commonwealth Foreign Exchange in  Washington.   "The fact that the U.S. continues to perform relatively well is  certainly good news," said Esiner, "but the real concern and the  real story is going to be what's going on in the global economy  and how the Fed characterizes that with respect to their  outlook."  Investors will be studying the U.S central bank's message on  Wednesday to determine what, if any, effect volatile global  markets, plummeting oil prices and heightened fears of a Chinese  slowdown will have on the Fed's previously stated intentions to  continue raising interest rates this year.  Markets are pricing in just one rate increase this year, compared  with the Fed's rate path, which suggested at least four hikes  back in December. 