  Falling oil prices are not the bellwether for the global economy  they once were, and a rebound will only come when producers  seriously cut back on the amount they are pumping.   "The weakness in oil prices is not telling us the economy is  collapsing. It's just that there's way too much oil," said Ethan  Harris, head of North America economics  at Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  "Only a small part of that is that demand is weakened. It's not  telling us about global spending. There's just too much supply."  The world is currently oversupplied by an estimated 1.5 to 2  million barrels a day, thanks to hefty production by the three  largest producers — Saudi Arabia, Russia, and the U.S.  — and incremental new barrels by producers such as  Iraq.   U.S. crude futures fell to $32.10 a barrel on Thursday, their  lowest level since 2003. The Energy Information Administration  said U.S. oil production has been running at about 9.2 million  barrels a day, under its all-time high of 9.6 million, but a  steady and high level given the impact on producers of sharply  lower price.  Another factor for the fall in oil could be the unseasonably warm  weather experienced recently. "Somewhat softer demand number but  a lot of it is a combination of weather and supply," said  Bruce Kasman, J.P. Morgan chief economist.In the U.S., warm weather has contributed to a build-up of distillates, which is diesel and heating oil. That and a build-up in gasoline supplies are signaling less need for crude demand by refineries.  U.S. oil prices pared losses on Thursday after hitting their  lows, but several experts see prices going even lower.  "It's hard to see us going down much further, but I think we're  going to oil test the $20 range," said John Kilduff, founding partner of  Again Capital. "This is what it's going to take to get the  attention of [OPEC]."  Last month, the cartel agreed to keep its high production  levels.  "The market is itself much more fragile than the price of oil  would indicate," Ed Morse, head of global commodity research at  Citigroup, said Thursday. "We think the pressure is still  going to be on for lower prices."RBS economist Michelle Girard, however, said that "one of the things I find frustrating  is the people see falling oil prices as a negative." Lower oil  prices help consumers by adding to their disposable income, she  said. "If oil prices go up, would it be a positive? Of course  not," she said. "People are not applying the same thinking both  ways."  Consumer spending rose by 0.3 percent in November.  Concerns over an economic slowdown took center stage this week,  as Chinese equities plunged 7 percent twice and dragged other  global financial markets down.  Still, Kilduff said the fall in oil prices will lead to lost  jobs, thus pressuring the economy."It's going to hurt," he told CNBC.  "In previous cycles, [higher oil] was a function of strong  economic performance. This time, it's a symptom of  poor economic conditions."— CNBC's Matthew J. Belvedere and Patti Domm contributed to this report.