Oil crossed  back above $31 a barrel this week. Despite the signs of strength,  one of Wall Street's top commodities analysts warns investors  should not trust the rally.   On CNBC's "Futures  Now," Helima Croft said the recent jump in oil prices  is more of a technical rebound rather than a reversal in  trend.  "When we hit $26.20, there was a widespread sense that  sell-off was overdone and that the market was too intensely  bearish," said the global head of commodities strategy at  RBC Capital Markets and a CNBC contributor. "However our desk thinks this relief rally  stalls out at around $34 to $35 without a real fundamental  catalyst." Oil has traded below that level for much of  2016, falling more than 15 percent  year to date.  Croft further noted that inventories still remain far too  high. Iraq may hit new record levels of  production at 4 million barrels a day, up from current  record levels of 3.7 million to 3.8 million daily  barrels, according to reports Monday.  And, with international sanctions being lifted, Iran is preparing  to introduce its own barrels to an already oversupplied market.  Once described as hawkish when it came to production cuts, the  nation is eager to profit from the freedom to sell  internationally while simultaneously looking to make a dent in  Saudi Arabia's market share. Read More  Oil sheds gains after big inventory build  On Tuesday, there was renewed optimism that a deal between  OPEC and non-OPEC nations could be made at an emergency meeting. "Iraq's energy minister indicated that Russia and Saudi  Arabia are becoming more flexible about output cuts. Saudi had  made Russian cooperation a precondition for any OPEC cut. The  Russians have spent the last year publicly rebuffing OPEC  overtures for coordination." Other than occasionally sharing information, Russia and  Saudi Arabia have never cooperated on oil  production.  For Croft, despite the potential for a deal, the supply and  demand picture for crude remains a real  threat.  "This is a technical market right now. It's about China. It's  about the dollar. That's what makes us concerned," said Croft.  "In this type of environment the macro headlines can take you  almost anywhere because fundamentals are not driving this market.  We're looking at the scale of the financial crisis sell-off [and  see] the $25 range as the floor right now."