  U.S. equities closed higher on Monday,  unfazed by a key vote in Italy which led to Prime Minister Matteo  Renzi's resignation, as financials, technology and consumer discretionary stocks rose around 1 percent.  The Dow Jones industrial average gained around 45 points, notching record highs on an intraday and closing basis, with Goldman  Sachs contributing the most gains. The S&P 500 advanced  0.58 percent, with financials, information technology and consumer discretionary leading advancers. The Nasdaq composite outperformed, closing 1 percent higher.  Stocks have been on a rip-roaring rally since the U.S. election,  with the three large-cap indexes rising more than 2 percent. "I  think we'll be OK through the rest of the year," said Tom  Siomades, head of Hartford Funds Investment Consulting  Group. "There really isn't that much to wrap your hands around  through the rest of the year."  Renzi said he would step down after being defeated in a  referendum regarding his plan to overhaul the Italian  constitution. Renzi said voters had shown a "clear" rejection of  legislative reform measures and that he would meet with his  cabinet on Monday and then hand in his resignation to the  President Sergio Mattarella, taking full responsibility for the  defeat.  The reforms would have made it so that the executive branch  needs approval only from parliament's lower house in order to  pass laws. Legislation is a slow, arduous process in Italy, where  there are a high number of lawmakers relative to the population,  and where the two houses of parliament essentially have the same,  duplicate powers.  But "going into the vote, ... the market had expected any trouble  in terms of liquidity, particularly with the banks, would be  mitigated by a Mario Draghi put," said Quincy Krosby, market  strategist at Prudential Financial. Shares of Italian bank Banca  Popolare di Milano fell more than 7 percent in European  trade.   "I think the fact that we went through the referendum and not  much has changed since then is [good] for U.S. markets," said  Kate Warne, investment strategist at Edward Jones, adding that U.S. stocks were taking their cue from European markets.  The euro briefly dipped more than 1 percent against the  dollar on Sunday evening, before trading higher against the U.S.  currency. As of 4:01 p.m. ET, the European common currency  traded 0.94 percent higher, at $1.0765. European stocks also  rose, with the pan-European Stoxx 600 index rising about 0.56 percent.We didn't react today to Italy, "however, I think this is the calm before the storm," said Peter Cardillo, chief market economist at First Standard Financial, noting that the referendum's defeat puts the country's banks in a vulnerable spot.  "Much of the bounce back is mainly due to the victory of the  Green party over in Austria which has faded the picture that  there would be any outcome such as Brexit. But the pain for the  euro may continue as the upcoming elections over in Germany,  Netherland, France and Italy will maintain their pressure," said  Naeem Aslam, chief market analyst at Think Markets, in a note.  "The support of 1.02 could be tested in the coming months and we  will be watching this level very closely."  Investors also payed attention to remarks made by New York  Federal Reserve President William Dudley, in which he said he  favors gradual rate hikes if the  U.S. economy stays on track. The expectation among investors  is for the Federal Reserve to hike interest rates at its meeting  later in December. According to the CME Group's FedWatch tool,  market expectations for a rate hike this month are above 90  percent.  In economic news, the November IHS Markit non-manufacturing index  came in at 54.6, marking the ninth consecutive month in which the services  sector has shown expansion. "Survey respondents noted that  improved client confidence and a favourable domestic economic  backdrop had helped to boost business activity in November," IHS  said.  The November ISM services index read, meanwhile, came in at 57.2, above an October read of 54.8.  Market watchers also eyed news from the incoming presidential  administration, after President-elect Donald Trump threatened  payback for U.S. firms that moved abroad.  "The hope and belief of many voters is that when deciding on a  candidate, campaigning is different than governing and things  said doing the former are implemented more practically under the  latter or not at all," Peter Boockvar, chief market analyst at  The Lindsey Group, in a note to clients. "Sticking only to the  economic talk (and not the SNL comments), we'll get a better  regulatory and corporate/individual tax environment I believe but  the trade talk was always the fear that apparently won't go away  after what I read yesterday."  "I so dislike politics and I'm going to no longer discuss it  after today but I have to respectively disagree with anyone that  tries to convince me that this sort of trade talk is somehow a  good thing," he said.  U.S. Treasurys traded mixed, with the   near 1.12 percent and the benchmark 10-year note yield around  2.39 percent.   In oil markets, U.S. crude for January delivery rose 0.21 percent to settle at $51.79 per barrel  amid optimism surrounding an OPEC deal reached last week.  The Dow Jones industrial average rose 45.82 points, or 0.24 percent,  to close at 19,216.24, with Nike leading advancers and UnitedHealth  Group leading decliners.  The  gained 12.76 points, or 0.58 percent, to 2,204.71, with  financials leading nine sectors higher and health care the top  decliner.  The Nasdaq composite advanced 53.24 points, or 1.01 percent, to  5,308.89.  About three stocks advanced for every decliner at the New York  Stock Exchange, with an exchange volume of 925.4 million and a  composite volume of 3.818 billion at the close.  The CBOE Volatility Index (VIX), widely considered the best gauge  of fear in the market, traded near 12.1.Gold futures for February delivery settled $1.30 lower at $1,176.50 per ounce.—CNBC's Sam Meredith contributed to this report. On tap this week: What to Watch Monday  Earnings: Coupa  Software Tuesday Earnings: Autozone, Michaels Cos, Dave  and Buster's, Toll  Brothers, Bob Evans, Oxford  Industries, Bank of Montreal  8:30 a.m. International trade  8:30 a.m. Productivity and costs  10 a.m. Factory orders Wednesday   Earnings: Costco, Lululemon  Athletica, Brown-Forman, Vera  Bradley, H and R Block   10 a.m. JOLTS  3 p.m. Consumer credit Thursday Earnings: Sears  Holdings, Broadcom, Restoration  Hardware, Ciena, Hovnanian   8:30 a.m. Initial claims  Friday   Earnings: Vail Resorts  10 a.m. Consumer sentiment  10 a.m. Wholesale trade