EBRD will provide $500 million funding for TANAP 
19102017

1023
EnergyAccording to the statement from The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD), the Managing Board authorized US$500 million financial support to complete the Trans Anatolian Natural Gas Pipeline (TANAP).  
The project will offer backing for the delivery of the most important energy supplies from the Caspian Sea through Europe along the Southern Gas Corridor (SGC) making a huge impact on energy safety and diversification. The EBRD financing will help accomplish the construction of TANAP that traverses Turkey.
 
Southern Gas Corridor Closed Joint Stock Company, or the borrower of the financing, is 51 percent owned by the Republic of Azerbaijan and 49 percent by Azerbaijan's State Oil Company. SGC Closed Joint Stock Company, which holds 58 percent of shares in TANAP, promotes Republic of Azerbaijan's interest in the project.

It will contribute to a better energy supply mix for consumers in the Balkan region and southeastern Europe. It will also significantly reduce CO2 emissions by replacing obsolete coal-fired power plants. The Bank's aid will encourage the adherence to highest environmental standards and continuation of a broader policy dialogue with all the SGC actors involved, according to the statement.

The gas infrastructure investments of the Southern Gas Corridor for the 3,500-kilometer-long pipeline passing through six countries are mounting to $40 billion. The core elements of the project are the Shah Deniz offshore gas field in Azerbaijan, the Southern Caucasus Pipeline in Azerbaijan and Georgia, TANAP in Turkey and the Trans Adriatic Pipeline (TAP) through Greece, Albania and Italy. The starting annual throughput capacity will reach the figure of 16 billion cubic meters, equal to the annual energy consumption of 10 million households in that area. 
 
 The project will offer backing for the delivery of the most important energy supplies from the Caspian Sea through Europe along the Southern Gas Corridor (SGC) making a huge impact on energy safety and diversification. The EBRD financing will help accomplish the construction of TANAP that traverses Turkey. Southern Gas Corridor Closed Joint Stock Company, or the borrower of the financing, is 51 percent owned by the Republic of Azerbaijan and 49 percent by Azerbaijan's State Oil Company. SGC Closed Joint Stock Company, which holds 58 percent of shares in TANAP, promotes Republic of Azerbaijan's interest in the project.
It will contribute to a better energy supply mix for consumers in the Balkan region and southeastern Europe. It will also significantly reduce CO2 emissions by replacing obsolete coal-fired power plants. The Bank's aid will encourage the adherence to highest environmental standards and continuation of a broader policy dialogue with all the SGC actors involved, according to the statement.
The gas infrastructure investments of the Southern Gas Corridor for the 3,500-kilometer-long pipeline passing through six countries are mounting to $40 billion. The core elements of the project are the Shah Deniz offshore gas field in Azerbaijan, the Southern Caucasus Pipeline in Azerbaijan and Georgia, TANAP in Turkey and the Trans Adriatic Pipeline (TAP) through Greece, Albania and Italy. The starting annual throughput capacity will reach the figure of 16 billion cubic meters, equal to the annual energy consumption of 10 million households in that area.  