EBRD approves 500 million euro TAP loan in boost for developers 
05072018

0853
Natural GasA major European development bank has approved a loan for construction of the Trans-Adriatic Pipeline (TAP) on Wednesday, in a boost for the developers of the 4.5 billion euro (3.97 billion pounds) gas project.The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) said its board of directors has approved a direct loan of up to 500 million euros ($583 million) for TAP.
 
TAP, the final leg of a $40 billion (30.28 billion pounds) project called the Southern Gas Corridor to transport gas from central Asia to western Europe, is a cornerstone of the European Union's energy security policy to wean the bloc off Russian gas supplies.
 
The European Investment Bank approved a 1.5 billion euro loan earlier this year for TAP and further contributions from the export credit agencies of France, Germany and Italy are currently under consideration, the EBRD said in a statement after the board meeting.
 
EBRD directors were asked to approve a total loan amount of up to 1.2 billion euros, sources familiar with the matter said. Apart from the direct loan, the rest would be a syndicated loan. However, the exact amount of that will depend on the success of syndication.
 
The EBRD said the pipeline will make a "significant contribution" to the diversification of Europe's energy supply.
 
"It will also help make energy supply for consumers more reliable, as well as achieve significant carbon dioxide reductions by providing a cleaner fuel, as compared to coal," it added.
 
With the first delivery of gas expected by 2020, it will be the first non-Russian gas pipeline to supply Europe since the Medgaz link which started to deliver gas from Algeria to Spain in 2011.
 
TAP will transport up to 10 billion cubic meters of natural gas per year from the Azeri Shah Deniz II field in Azerbaijan to Italy by 2020.
Source: reuters.com
The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) said its board of directors has approved a direct loan of up to 500 million euros ($583 million) for TAP. TAP, the final leg of a $40 billion (30.28 billion pounds) project called the Southern Gas Corridor to transport gas from central Asia to western Europe, is a cornerstone of the European Union's energy security policy to wean the bloc off Russian gas supplies. The European Investment Bank approved a 1.5 billion euro loan earlier this year for TAP and further contributions from the export credit agencies of France, Germany and Italy are currently under consideration, the EBRD said in a statement after the board meeting. EBRD directors were asked to approve a total loan amount of up to 1.2 billion euros, sources familiar with the matter said. Apart from the direct loan, the rest would be a syndicated loan. However, the exact amount of that will depend on the success of syndication. The EBRD said the pipeline will make a "significant contribution" to the diversification of Europe's energy supply. "It will also help make energy supply for consumers more reliable, as well as achieve significant carbon dioxide reductions by providing a cleaner fuel, as compared to coal," it added. With the first delivery of gas expected by 2020, it will be the first non-Russian gas pipeline to supply Europe since the Medgaz link which started to deliver gas from Algeria to Spain in 2011. TAP will transport up to 10 billion cubic meters of natural gas per year from the Azeri Shah Deniz II field in Azerbaijan to Italy by 2020.Source: reuters.com