Eight energy companies promise methane cuts from natural gas 
23112017

1421
Natural GasBP, ExxonMobil, Shell, Statoil and Total are among eight energy firms that inked the Guiding Principles document to further cut methane emissions from their natural gas assets. The companies, which comprise Eni, Repsol and Wintershall, have also decided to motivate others across the natural gas value chain - from production to the end-user - to follow suit.

The agreement concentrates on constantly reducing methane emissions, enhancing strong performance across gas value chains, increasing precision in methane emissions data, supporting sound policies and boosting transparency.
 
The guidelines outlined in the accord were designed in co-operation with a number of organizations, counting UN Environment, International Energy Agency (IEA), International Gas Union and the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative Climate Investments.
 
The engagement presumes wider efforts made by energy industry representatives to guarantee that natural gas will play a decisive role in aiding to meet future demand while tackling climate change.

Mark Radka, Head of UN Environment's Energy and Climate Branch declared: "Numerous studies have shown the importance of quickly reducing methane emissions if we're to meet growing energy demand and multiple environmental goals. The Guiding Principles provide an excellent framework for doing so across the entire natural gas value chain, particularly if they're linked to reporting on the emissions reductions achieved."
 
The companies, which comprise Eni, Repsol and Wintershall, have also decided to motivate others across the natural gas value chain - from production to the end-user - to follow suit.
The agreement concentrates on constantly reducing methane emissions, enhancing strong performance across gas value chains, increasing precision in methane emissions data, supporting sound policies and boosting transparency. The guidelines outlined in the accord were designed in co-operation with a number of organizations, counting UN Environment, International Energy Agency (IEA), International Gas Union and the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative Climate Investments. 
The engagement presumes wider efforts made by energy industry representatives to guarantee that natural gas will play a decisive role in aiding to meet future demand while tackling climate change.
Mark Radka, Head of UN Environment's Energy and Climate Branch declared: "Numerous studies have shown the importance of quickly reducing methane emissions if we're to meet growing energy demand and multiple environmental goals. The Guiding Principles provide an excellent framework for doing so across the entire natural gas value chain, particularly if they're linked to reporting on the emissions reductions achieved."
 