Engie boosts renewables role with French Langa purchase 
12062018

0918
RenewableEngie strengthened its position in the solar and wind energy sectors in France with the acquisition of the Langa group, the company announced Wednesday."Engie, the leading wind and solar energy company in France, has consolidated its position in these two technologies today by acquiring the Langa Group," a press release said.
 
Founded in 2008, the Langa Group, based in Brittany, is one of the most active independent producers of renewable energy, simultaneously present in solar, wind, biogas and biomass, according to the statement.
 
It holds a portfolio in operation, which by the end of 2018 is set to reach an installed capacity of 215 megawatts (MW) of which 165 MW is in solar energy and 39 MW in wind energy.
 
The group is developing 1.3 gigawatts (GW) of projects due for completion by 2022.
 
"This acquisition will allow Engie, in addition to its strong organic growth, to intensify its development in renewable energies in France," the statement said, adding Engie aims to also develop nearly 3 GW of wind and nearly 2.2 GW of solar by 2021.
 
Gwenaelle Huet, CEO of Engie France Renewables, said the alliance of the two groups, which are among the leading French solar developers, and "in particular the specific skills of Langa teams on roofs and ground-based power plants, as well as the general portfolio of projects being developed" would "incontestably" make Engie a leader of the sector in the country.
 
Gilles Lebreux, founder and CEO of the Langa Group, welcomed "the timeliness of this alliance" saying "The clarity and determination shown through the acquisition proposal as well as the business proposal put forward by Engie were key factors in the decision of the shareholders of the group to project Langa into the future."
 
The group positioned itself as "a major actor in the development of renewable energy in France and in particular in 2017, by winning many calls for tender launched by the [Energy Regulation Commission] CRE," he added.
 
This acquisition follows on from the recent regroupings of Engie positions within Engie Green France, making it a major player of the French renewable market, according to the statement.
Source: aa.com.tr
"Engie, the leading wind and solar energy company in France, has consolidated its position in these two technologies today by acquiring the Langa Group," a press release said. Founded in 2008, the Langa Group, based in Brittany, is one of the most active independent producers of renewable energy, simultaneously present in solar, wind, biogas and biomass, according to the statement. It holds a portfolio in operation, which by the end of 2018 is set to reach an installed capacity of 215 megawatts (MW) of which 165 MW is in solar energy and 39 MW in wind energy. The group is developing 1.3 gigawatts (GW) of projects due for completion by 2022. "This acquisition will allow Engie, in addition to its strong organic growth, to intensify its development in renewable energies in France," the statement said, adding Engie aims to also develop nearly 3 GW of wind and nearly 2.2 GW of solar by 2021. Gwenaelle Huet, CEO of Engie France Renewables, said the alliance of the two groups, which are among the leading French solar developers, and "in particular the specific skills of Langa teams on roofs and ground-based power plants, as well as the general portfolio of projects being developed" would "incontestably" make Engie a leader of the sector in the country. Gilles Lebreux, founder and CEO of the Langa Group, welcomed "the timeliness of this alliance" saying "The clarity and determination shown through the acquisition proposal as well as the business proposal put forward by Engie were key factors in the decision of the shareholders of the group to project Langa into the future." The group positioned itself as "a major actor in the development of renewable energy in France and in particular in 2017, by winning many calls for tender launched by the [Energy Regulation Commission] CRE," he added. This acquisition follows on from the recent regroupings of Engie positions within Engie Green France, making it a major player of the French renewable market, according to the statement.Source: aa.com.tr