Engie shines in French solar sale 
08082018

0859
SolarFrench company Engie has secured 230MW of solar capacity out of 710MW awarded in France's latest capacity auction.The 230MW awarded in the fourth session of the fourth call for solar tenders organised by the energy regulatory commission went to subsidiaries Engie Green, Lang and Compagnie Nationale du Rhone.
 
Engie said the projects range in size from 1MW to 27MW and are spread across the country, including the Brittany, Vienne, Morbihan and Alsace regions.
 
The average price for the fourth session was EUR52.1 per megawatt-hour for large ground-based power plants, it added.
 
Overall, Engie said it won almost 550MW in the four rounds of the fourth tender.
 
Engie France Renewables chief executive Gwenaelle Huet said: "With this new record, Engie is once again showing its great dynamism and leadership in this fast-growing sector.
 
"It is through concrete and tangible results that we will be able to respond to the major challenges of the energy transition and thereby contribute to harmonious progress in France."
Source: renews.biz
The 230MW awarded in the fourth session of the fourth call for solar tenders organised by the energy regulatory commission went to subsidiaries Engie Green, Lang and Compagnie Nationale du Rhone. Engie said the projects range in size from 1MW to 27MW and are spread across the country, including the Brittany, Vienne, Morbihan and Alsace regions. The average price for the fourth session was EUR52.1 per megawatt-hour for large ground-based power plants, it added. Overall, Engie said it won almost 550MW in the four rounds of the fourth tender. Engie France Renewables chief executive Gwenaelle Huet said: "With this new record, Engie is once again showing its great dynamism and leadership in this fast-growing sector. "It is through concrete and tangible results that we will be able to respond to the major challenges of the energy transition and thereby contribute to harmonious progress in France."Source: renews.biz