Equinor to extend the life of Statfjord field towards 2040 
09012020

1053
EnergyNorwegian oil and gas company Equinor and its partners in the Statfjord area have identified and approved plans to extend production from the field towards 2040.A new business plan will ensure even higher use of resources, extract more value from the field, and allow plans for decommissioning Statfjord A in 2022 to be deferred, Equinor said on Thursday.
 
Based on extensive mapping of the underground, the remaining potential of the Statfjord area is still considerable.
 
Equinor and its partners have therefore resolved a new business plan for the Statfjord main field and satellite fields. Var Energi, Spirit Energy Norway, Petoro, Idemitsu Petroleum Norway, and Wintershall Dea Norge are partners in the Statfjord area, and Equinor is the operator.
 
Statfjord A was scheduled for decommissioning in 2022, however, the field life will now be extended to 2027. The lives of Statfjord B and C will be extended beyond 2035.
 
According to Equinor, through 40 years of production, Statfjord has generated 1600 billion NOK gross income to the owners and the Norwegian society.
Source: offshoreenergytoday.com
A new business plan will ensure even higher use of resources, extract more value from the field, and allow plans for decommissioning Statfjord A in 2022 to be deferred, Equinor said on Thursday. Based on extensive mapping of the underground, the remaining potential of the Statfjord area is still considerable. Equinor and its partners have therefore resolved a new business plan for the Statfjord main field and satellite fields. Var Energi, Spirit Energy Norway, Petoro, Idemitsu Petroleum Norway, and Wintershall Dea Norge are partners in the Statfjord area, and Equinor is the operator. Statfjord A was scheduled for decommissioning in 2022, however, the field life will now be extended to 2027. The lives of Statfjord B and C will be extended beyond 2035. According to Equinor, through 40 years of production, Statfjord has generated 1600 billion NOK gross income to the owners and the Norwegian society.Source: offshoreenergytoday.com