Equinor begins production from Oseberg Vestflanken 2 field 
16102018

0851
EnergyEquinor and its partners have commenced production from the Oseberg Vestflanken 2 field in the Norwegian North Sea through the unmanned Oseberg H platform.The Oseberg Vestflanken 2 field has been developed with an investment of NOK6.5bn ($800m) on the Oseberg H platform, which is operated remotely from the Oseberg field centre.
 
Designed to recover oil and gas from new deposits, the Oseberg H facility is capable of boosting the recovery rate from other producing deposits. The new type of unmanned wellhead platform does not have any process equipment, living quarters, drilling facilities or helicopter deck.
 
Located in block 30/9-30/6, 8kms north-west of Oseberg field centre, the Oseberg Vestflanken 2 field is estimated to contain reserves of 110 million barrels of oil equivalent.
 
According to the Norwegian oil and gas giant, the 11 wells on the Oseberg Vestflanken 2 field will be drilled by the Askepott jack-up rig. Nine wells will be drilled through the Oseberg H platform while the remaining two will be drilled through an existing subsea template.
Source: compelo.com
The Oseberg Vestflanken 2 field has been developed with an investment of NOK6.5bn ($800m) on the Oseberg H platform, which is operated remotely from the Oseberg field centre. Designed to recover oil and gas from new deposits, the Oseberg H facility is capable of boosting the recovery rate from other producing deposits. The new type of unmanned wellhead platform does not have any process equipment, living quarters, drilling facilities or helicopter deck. Located in block 30/9-30/6, 8kms north-west of Oseberg field centre, the Oseberg Vestflanken 2 field is estimated to contain reserves of 110 million barrels of oil equivalent. According to the Norwegian oil and gas giant, the 11 wells on the Oseberg Vestflanken 2 field will be drilled by the Askepott jack-up rig. Nine wells will be drilled through the Oseberg H platform while the remaining two will be drilled through an existing subsea template.Source: compelo.com