EU might double renewables in the energy mix by 2030 
21022018

1314
RenewableThe EU might double the volume of green energy in its energy mix, hitting a share of 34% by 2030, according to the International Renewable Energy Agency (IRENA), which mentions that this is possible with current technologies and would need an estimated investment of approximately EUR62 billion (PS54.7 billion) per year.It added that increasing the share of renewables by this amount would cut emissions by 15% in a bit more than a decade, equivalent to the total emissions of Italy.
 
IRENA stated that these reductions would bring the EU in line with its target to limit emissions by 40% compared to 1990 levels and set it on a path towards further decarbonisation in the future.
 
It anticipates the rise in renewables would result in savings of around EUR113 billion (PS100billion) per year by 2030, taking into consideration savings related to the cost of energy and avoided ecological and health costs.
 
IRENA Director-General Adnan Z. Amin, said: "With an ambitious and achievable new renewable energy strategy, the EU can deliver market certainty to investors and developers, strengthen economic activity, grow jobs, improve health and put the EU on a stronger decarbonisation pathway in line with its climate objectives."

 
It added that increasing the share of renewables by this amount would cut emissions by 15% in a bit more than a decade, equivalent to the total emissions of Italy. IRENA stated that these reductions would bring the EU in line with its target to limit emissions by 40% compared to 1990 levels and set it on a path towards further decarbonisation in the future. It anticipates the rise in renewables would result in savings of around EUR113 billion (PS100billion) per year by 2030, taking into consideration savings related to the cost of energy and avoided ecological and health costs. IRENA Director-General Adnan Z. Amin, said: "With an ambitious and achievable new renewable energy strategy, the EU can deliver market certainty to investors and developers, strengthen economic activity, grow jobs, improve health and put the EU on a stronger decarbonisation pathway in line with its climate objectives."
 