  European equities closed largely lower Friday, as investors  reacted to better-than-expected jobs data from the U.S.  The pan-European Euro Stoxx 600 Index closed around 0.9 percent  lower, despite a boost after new figures showing the U.S. economy  created 280,000 jobs in May. This was better than expected, after  a slow start to the year for the country.   London's FTSE 100 index closed  provisionally 0.7 percent lower, while the French CAC and Germany's DAX closed around 1.2 percent  lower and 1.1 percent lower respectively.  In Athens, the benchmark stock index closed around 5 percent  lower after the Greek government postponed a debt  repayment.   Greece had a 300 million euro ($338 million) payment due to the  International Monetary Fund on Friday, but informed the fund that  it would miss the payment and instead pay at the end of the  month, bundling it in with other payments due in June.   Meanwhile, the negotiations between Greece and its international creditors  over a reform deal are rumbling on.  Oil stocks were the major outperformer on Friday on the back of a  sharp rise in the price of the commodity, which reversed later in the  session.   In early afternoon trade, the 12-member OPEC group confirmed it was  maintaining its oil production target of 30 million barrels  of "black gold" per day.   The oil and gas  stock sector in Europe closed up around 0.6 percent, the only  major industry to close in positive territory bar basic  resources.   U.S. stocks traded narrowly mixed on Friday as investors weighed  developments in Greece and the fall in Treasury notes following the strong jobs  report.   Back in Europe, shares of Vodafone closed around 2.4 percent lower after the mobile operator said it was  considering an exchange of selected assets with Liberty  Global, ending speculation of a possible merger. UK Oil & Gas  Investments shot as much as 7 percent higher during the  day's trade, after the group said its site near London's Gatwick Airport  has been independently assessed for oil supply. After the Europe markets close, ratings agency Standard & Poor's announced that it had  .  The FTSEurofirst 300 index closed  2.6 percent lower on the week's trade.  Follow us on Twitter: @CNBCWorld