  European markets closed lower on Friday, after strong gains  earlier this week, with investors digesting corporate earnings and fluctuations in currency markets.The pan-European Euro Stoxx 600 ended 0.3 percent lower with most sectors trading in negative territory. Autos stocks were the worst performers, down by 0.92 percent after President Donald Trump's hawkish remarks on trade tariffs for the sector. Banking stocks were also lower, down by 0.82 percent. The Italian bank UniCredit was more than 5.1 percent lower after Italian media reports, not verified by CNBC, said its vice chairman confirmed the bank was not selling its stake in Mediobanca. The lender is also starting its capital increase earlier than planned, on February 6, according to the reports. The Finnish ship technology firm Wartsila ended near the top of the European benchmark after reporting better-than-expected profits and new orders in the last quarter. Shares of the Danish telecom company TDC dropped more than 4.4 percent on Friday after news that its Nordic rival Telia is no longer buying the firm due to legal, financial and political hurdles, Reuters reported. Meanwhile in the U.S., the Dow Jones industrial average continued slightly lower after the blue chips index had surpassed the psychologically important 20,000 mark on Wednesday.  The Swiss bank UBS delivered  738 million Swiss francs ($737.3 million) of fourth-quarter net  profit, coming in short of last year's comparable 949 Swiss  francs, but clearly ahead of a Reuters consensus forecast of 339  million Swiss francs. Its shares were down by 4.5 percent Friday. BT reported an  operating profit of 729 million pounds ($913.58) for its third  quarter. Its reported revenue went up by 32 percent. The firm  announced that the head of its European division is leaving after  an accounting scandal that sank its shares earlier this week. Its shares began reversing the downward trend on Friday.  Oil prices edged lower on Friday, paring gains made earlier in  the day, as investors turned their attention to rising production  in the U.S. and away from OPEC and other producers' commitment to  curbing global oversupply. Brent crude traded at around $55.01 a barrel shortly after the European close on Friday, down 2.17 percent, while U.S. crude was  around $52.71 a barrel, down 2.01 percent.  Apart from looking at several corporate earnings reports,  investors were also focused on Washington where U.K. Prime  Minister Theresa May will meet U.S. President Donald Trump. May said Thursday that "opposites attract" as she  called for a strengthening in the "special relationship" with the  U.S.  Two other world leaders are meeting this Friday.  Chancellor Angela  Merkel of Germany is receiving France's President  Francois Hollande in Berlin to discuss the future of the European  Union.   Data released Friday showed lending to companies and households  moving higher in the euro zone at the end of last year.  Follow CNBC International on Twitter and Facebook.