  Oil prices have been under pressure this week as investors raised  doubts over whether an agreement on a production cut between OPEC  and non-OPEC members would soon materialize.  However, even if a deal over an output cut doesn't emerge soon;  one analyst believes prices are still going to climb.  "We think even without an OPEC deal, prices are headed higher and  that's purely because of fundamentals," Miswin Mahesh, oil  analyst at Barclays, told CNBC on Friday.  "Demand, supply — when we do the numbers, we're getting  a deficit as early as Q1 to Q2."  When looking at the first to second quarter, Mahesh said it was  possible prices could head towards the $50 to $55 per barrel  range.   Meanwhile, Chantico Global's CEO Gina Sanchez argued on CNBC's Street Signs Europe, that unless the market sees some significant news out of the OPEC  meeting—which she said she didn't anticipate—oil is  likely to trade back down to around $40 per barrel.  Representatives from OPEC and non-OPEC countries are expected to  begin two-day negotiations on Friday to hash out plans over a possible  output-capping deal, which is expected to be presented to the  OPEC meeting by the end of November, Reuters reported. However  doubts over the discussions pushed crude prices into the  red on Friday, with U.S. crude at $49.20  and Brent at $50.04 at 2.00 p.m. U.K. time.  What this technical meeting suggests is that OPEC wants to convey  to the market that it's taking this output discussion very  seriously; however on the face of it, it appears the "market is actually losing hope now", Mahesh told CNBC.  "Besides the Saudis, no other country has actually come out and  said we will also cut. The other GCC members might. Iran has said  they don't want a fixed number; they need a percentage number  which is a moving target as well. So it's a very, very complex  and it's just getting harder by the day," said Mahesh.  The uncertainty over what OPEC will do to fix the current state  of the energy market raises questions over what the outcome of  the November talks will be.   "Looks like what we're headed to is a namesake deal — we  probably get a three to six month deal where the Saudis do  something just to sort of 'save face'," Mahesh said.  "And their credibility's also on the line here, as much as OPEC's  is, and the market has put a lot of faith in the Saudi word, more  so than the OPEC word."