  Investors seemed to have put renewed faith in emerging markets  over the past few weeks, with the emerging market ETF (EEM)  rising more than 7 percent and outperforming major U.S. indexes.  But despite strong gains, traders say that the latest emerging  market bounce is not to be trusted.  Emerging markets have been badly beaten as commodities prices  have fallen to multiyear lows. Kathy Lien of BK Asset Management  said Tuesday's 3 percent rise in emerging markets was spurred by  optimism around China, one of the world's largest consumers of  commodities.  "The only reason why these emerging market nations' stocks are  rising is because China's pressing the pedal to the metal with  their latest reduction in the reserves that banks need to hold," Lien said Tuesday on CNBC's "Power Lunch."  China's cut in required reserves, which is meant to increase  loans and assist economic growth, will not be enough to bolster  its slowing economy, she said. Lien also foresees more  outflows from China, which will further weaken the yuan  and the country's purchasing power. This would weigh even more on  emerging markets that look to China as a key consumer and trade  partner.  And while the increased liquidity in banks may help boost the  stock market, Lien said it isn't enough to encourage a  substantial recovery for China or other emerging markets.Read More  Don't buy into the safety stock surge: Traders  "Based upon the previous moves of this similar nature that  they've taken, it has not effectively increased new investment or  economic activity," Lien said. "I think the Chinese government is  going to need to do more."  Along with news out of China, the bounce in oil has helped  emerging markets, said Gina Sanchez of Chantico Global. However,  "neither of those are actually good enough reasons to dive into  emerging markets right now. They are falling knives," she said  Tuesday on "Power Lunch."  Recent talk of a production cut or freeze from OPEC has driven oil's gains in the last month. But Sanchez said it's  unlikely that higher crude prices will help emerging markets in the  near term. The price of oil "might start to rise, but it's going  to rise slowly and I think that story's going to take a long time  to bear out," she said.   Still, the story may not be all bad for emerging markets. In a  Tuesday note, Kevin Caron and Chad Morganlander of Stifel wrote  that emerging markets have been brought up to a neutral weighting  as valuations compared to the  start to look more  attractive.  "While there may still be some turbulence yet ahead, the reset in  expectations and valuations warrants at least a small allocation  for investors with a longer-term point of view," the Stifel note  said. Want to be a part of the Trading Nation? If you'd like to call into our live Wednesday show, email your name, number, and a question to TradingNation@cnbc.com.