France, Russia extend nuclear power cooperation 
30052018

0850
NuclearRussia's Rosatom and the French Alternative Energies and Atomic Energy Commission (CEA) have signed a strategic document on partnership in the peaceful uses of nuclear energy.The agreement was signed on 24 May by Rosatom Director General Alexy Likhachov and CEA Chairman Francois Jacq in the presence of the Russian and French presidents, Vladimir Putin and Emmanuel Macron, during the St. Petersburg International Economic Forum.
 
Rosatom said the document "gives a new impetus" to cooperation between the two countries and "expresses their mutual intention" to develop cooperation in energy efficiency and renewable energy.
 
"It underscores the fact both parties share a common approach to nuclear power development and its role in achieving the goal of the Paris Agreement as part of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change," the Russian state nuclear corporation said.
 
"It was noted that nuclear power is a high-technology, modern, reliable and economically effective source of energy generation which ensures, along with renewables, solutions to greenhouse gas emissions," it added.
 
The parties are to strengthen their technical and commercial interaction in: energy efficiency and alternative energy sources; the development of energy accumulation systems and fast neutron reactors; engineering and equipment supplies for nuclear power plants; the supply of nuclear fuel for commercial and scientific purposes; the processing of used nuclear fuel; and the reuse of recovered materials.
 
Rosatom and CEA will jointly work on industrial facilities in third countries, it added, and the document also provides for scientific exchanges between students of nuclear energy disciplines and broadening contacts between employees of research nuclear centres.
Source: world-nuclear-news.org
The agreement was signed on 24 May by Rosatom Director General Alexy Likhachov and CEA Chairman Francois Jacq in the presence of the Russian and French presidents, Vladimir Putin and Emmanuel Macron, during the St. Petersburg International Economic Forum. Rosatom said the document "gives a new impetus" to cooperation between the two countries and "expresses their mutual intention" to develop cooperation in energy efficiency and renewable energy. "It underscores the fact both parties share a common approach to nuclear power development and its role in achieving the goal of the Paris Agreement as part of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change," the Russian state nuclear corporation said. "It was noted that nuclear power is a high-technology, modern, reliable and economically effective source of energy generation which ensures, along with renewables, solutions to greenhouse gas emissions," it added. The parties are to strengthen their technical and commercial interaction in: energy efficiency and alternative energy sources; the development of energy accumulation systems and fast neutron reactors; engineering and equipment supplies for nuclear power plants; the supply of nuclear fuel for commercial and scientific purposes; the processing of used nuclear fuel; and the reuse of recovered materials. Rosatom and CEA will jointly work on industrial facilities in third countries, it added, and the document also provides for scientific exchanges between students of nuclear energy disciplines and broadening contacts between employees of research nuclear centres.Source: world-nuclear-news.org