France EDF will protect its business position in energy sector investigation 
21092017

1521
BiofuelsThe French minister of environment Nicolas Hulot declared in July that about 17 reactors could be closed in France by the year 2025, as it tries to reduce the part of nuclear power in its electricity mix.Government's position should be clarified by the end of 2018, and EDF's CEO Jean-Bernard Levy announced that EDF will protect its business plan by setting out its stall. On Tuesday, French state-controlled power group EDF stated that it targets to defend its business interests as the government revises its sources of its energy, counting plans to modernise different nuclear power sites.
 
During a briefing in Paris, Levy was persuaded that France will try to find possibilities to solve various interests regarding electricity system, regulation, energy industry changes and its interests as a shareholder of EDF.
 
Being a net electricity exporter in Europe, France relies upon 58 nuclear reactors operated by EDF for 3 quarters of its power.
 
Nevertheless, the decrease of energy supply could potentially mean a second winter with the same conditions, as nuclear reactors undergo an analysis of multiple components and an increased inspection requested by the country's regulator. 
 
Government's position should be clarified by the end of 2018, and EDF's CEO Jean-Bernard Levy announced that EDF will protect its business plan by setting out its stall. On Tuesday, French state-controlled power group EDF stated that it targets to defend its business interests as the government revises its sources of its energy, counting plans to modernise different nuclear power sites. During a briefing in Paris, Levy was persuaded that France will try to find possibilities to solve various interests regarding electricity system, regulation, energy industry changes and its interests as a shareholder of EDF. Being a net electricity exporter in Europe, France relies upon 58 nuclear reactors operated by EDF for 3 quarters of its power. Nevertheless, the decrease of energy supply could potentially mean a second winter with the same conditions, as nuclear reactors undergo an analysis of multiple components and an increased inspection requested by the country's regulator. 
 