  How long it will take the oil market to bounce back is a  frequently asked question by energy investors. According  to one equity analyst, the answer is looking beyond the coming months.   "I think [there's] very little visibility over the next six  months," Kris Kelley of Janus Capital Group said Wednesday on CNBC's "Power Lunch." "But I think that if you step out  beyond six months, it actually gets very visible."Kelley says, however, that in the  short-term span of six months global producers ramping up  output can impact market supply, but both OPEC and non-OPEC  producers are essentially at peak production, which challenges  their ability to continue oversupplying the market a year from  now.  "They're not going to be able to raise production to 500,000 or 1  million barrels a day, which is what the world will need to  balance supply and demand," Kelley said as he forecast  oil trading at $50 to $60 by year-end.   Conversely, U.S. inventories surprised energy investors with a  stock draw on Wednesday and oil subsequently settled up 5 percent. Crude stocks fell 4.9 million barrels last week as  refineries continued to increase output and imports dropped, according to the Energy Information Administration.  U.S. oil settled at $37.75 a barrel, up 5.18  percent, while the internationally traded Brent rose $1.91 to $39.76 a  barrel.  Not everyone is convinced of a long-term surge for oil, however. Michael  Scialla, research analyst at Stifel, told CNBC's "Power Lunch"  that his firm sees oil trading at $37 a barrel by year-end.  After downgrading five oil stocks to "hold" Wednesday, based on a potential weakness in balance sheets, Scialla does suggest that energy investors consider exploration and production company Concho Resources. The analyst said the stock is favorable even in a low environment and is "as well-positioned as any other company." Concho rose 4.5 percent Wednesday.   "They've got a pure play on the Permian; one of the best assets  in the U.S.," he said. "[The] balance sheet is in  good shape."  — Reuters contributed to this report. CNBC was not able to immediately confirm whether the analyst has a position in Concho Resources.