Gas transmission via Nord Stream Pipeline has resumed 
06082018

0914
Natural GasAll planned maintenance works on the Nord Stream twin gas pipelines have been successfully concluded within the scheduled time frame. Gas transmission resumed today and the full capacity of both pipelines is now available again.Nord Stream AG's Maintenance Director Olivier Escola highlighted: "For the sixth consecutive year, our Operations and Maintenance teams as well as our contractors have done an excellent job. Nord Stream AG has completed all maintenance activities as planned and on time. This annual interruption of gas transportation ensures that Nord Stream maintains on the long run the highest standards of safety and reliability. This enables us to contribute to secure energy supply in Europe."
 
The maintenance works for northern gas corridor (starting from Gryazovets, Russia and finishing in Rehden, Germany and on German/Czech border) had been scheduled in close co-ordination with Nord Stream AG's upstream and downstream partners well in advance.
 
Nord Stream's maintenance works are an essential part of the company's long-term Pipeline Integrity Management Strategy. The temporary interruption of supplies was factored into the nominations of gas to be transported via the Nord Stream Pipeline to downstream European partners.
Source: worldpipelines.com
Nord Stream AG's Maintenance Director Olivier Escola highlighted: "For the sixth consecutive year, our Operations and Maintenance teams as well as our contractors have done an excellent job. Nord Stream AG has completed all maintenance activities as planned and on time. This annual interruption of gas transportation ensures that Nord Stream maintains on the long run the highest standards of safety and reliability. This enables us to contribute to secure energy supply in Europe." The maintenance works for northern gas corridor (starting from Gryazovets, Russia and finishing in Rehden, Germany and on German/Czech border) had been scheduled in close co-ordination with Nord Stream AG's upstream and downstream partners well in advance. Nord Stream's maintenance works are an essential part of the company's long-term Pipeline Integrity Management Strategy. The temporary interruption of supplies was factored into the nominations of gas to be transported via the Nord Stream Pipeline to downstream European partners.Source: worldpipelines.com