Gazprom brings energy security of Kaliningrad Region to new level 
10012019

0913
LNGGazprom makes comprehensive efforts to improve the reliability of gas supplies to the Kaliningrad Region. Gazprom carried out an alternative gas supply project focused on LNG deliveries by sea. A gas receiving terminal based in the Baltic Sea and onshore was built in the Kaliningrad Region.Earlier, the company set up the Kaliningradskoye underground gas storage (UGS) facility and increased the throughput capacity of the Minsk -Vilnius - Kaunas - Kaliningrad gas pipeline, the only route for gas deliveries to Russia's westernmost constituent entity until now.
 
Marshal Vasilevskiy is the only FSRU in Russia. The vessel transports LNG (174,000 m3 of reservoir capacity) and performs regasification operations, converting LNG to gaseous form.
 
The regasification process starts at the FSRU as soon as the vessel is moored at the berth. Liquefied gas is converted to gaseous form and fed into the existing gas transmission system via a newly-built 13 km connecting gas pipeline. Afterwards, gas is delivered to consumers or injected into the Kaliningradskoye UGS facility.
 
Thanks to the terminal and the FSRU, up to 3.7 billion m3 of gas can be delivered by sea on an annual basis. If necessary, the new facilities will meet the current and future needs of the Kaliningrad Region.
Source: neftegaz.ru
Earlier, the company set up the Kaliningradskoye underground gas storage (UGS) facility and increased the throughput capacity of the Minsk -Vilnius - Kaunas - Kaliningrad gas pipeline, the only route for gas deliveries to Russia's westernmost constituent entity until now. Marshal Vasilevskiy is the only FSRU in Russia. The vessel transports LNG (174,000 m3 of reservoir capacity) and performs regasification operations, converting LNG to gaseous form. The regasification process starts at the FSRU as soon as the vessel is moored at the berth. Liquefied gas is converted to gaseous form and fed into the existing gas transmission system via a newly-built 13 km connecting gas pipeline. Afterwards, gas is delivered to consumers or injected into the Kaliningradskoye UGS facility. Thanks to the terminal and the FSRU, up to 3.7 billion m3 of gas can be delivered by sea on an annual basis. If necessary, the new facilities will meet the current and future needs of the Kaliningrad Region.Source: neftegaz.ru