Gazprom Export supplies 1st LPG from Russia to China by rail 
15112019

0928
Natural GasGazprom Export has for the 1st time supplied liquefied petroleum gas by rail from Russian Federation to the People's Republic of China. This was done as part of the preparations for exports from the Amur gas processing plant, which is under construction at the moment.At the beginning of November, the buyer received eighteen tank cars filled with propane-butane technical mixture at a terminal of the Manzhouli gateway station. It was produced at Surgut Condensate Stabilization Plant named after Viktor Chernomyrdin.
 
"The launch of the Amur gas processing plant will significantly enlarge the volume and product range of the exports portfolio of Gazprom Export. Now, we are actively pursuing the marketing strategy of the products of the plant and testing new logistics. That will enable us to start the Amur plant's exports as soon as possible after its launch, " - says Deputy Chairman of the Gazprom Management Committee, Director General of Gazprom Export Elena Burmistrova.
 
In August, Gazprom Export successfully supplied by rail and road transport via gas-filling station near Ussuriysk a test cargo with propane-butane technical mixture to the People's Republic of China.
Source: neftegaz.ru
At the beginning of November, the buyer received eighteen tank cars filled with propane-butane technical mixture at a terminal of the Manzhouli gateway station. It was produced at Surgut Condensate Stabilization Plant named after Viktor Chernomyrdin. "The launch of the Amur gas processing plant will significantly enlarge the volume and product range of the exports portfolio of Gazprom Export. Now, we are actively pursuing the marketing strategy of the products of the plant and testing new logistics. That will enable us to start the Amur plant's exports as soon as possible after its launch, " - says Deputy Chairman of the Gazprom Management Committee, Director General of Gazprom Export Elena Burmistrova. In August, Gazprom Export successfully supplied by rail and road transport via gas-filling station near Ussuriysk a test cargo with propane-butane technical mixture to the People's Republic of China.Source: neftegaz.ru