Gazprom concludes gas feeding into Power of Siberia 
30102019

0853
Natural GasRussian gas giant Gazprom said Tuesday it's completed feeding natural gas into the Power of Siberia gas pipeline, which is soon to start supplying product on long-term contract to CNPC, Kallanish Energy reports."The gas from the Chayandiskoye field in Yakutia has reached the near-(Chinese) border gas metering station in the proximity of Blagoveshchensk. Power of Siberia's linear part is thus ready for the commencement of Russian pipeline gas supplies to China," Gazprom said, in a statement.
 
"The next step is to feed gas into the trans-border crossing under the Amur River," it added.
 
The official delivery of 38 billion cubic meters per year of gas is set to start Dec. 1, for a 30-year period. The Power of Siberia gas trunkline, running roughly 3,000 kilometers (1,864 miles), will transport gas from the Irkutsk and Yakutia gas production centers to consumers in Russia's Far East and China.
 
The pipeline route passes through swampy, mountainous, seismically active, permafrost and rocky areas with extreme environmental conditions. The lowest air temperatures along the route range from -62 degrees Celsius (-146 degrees Fahrenheit) in the Republic of Sakha (Yakutia), to minus 41 degrees Celsius (-105.8 degrees F) in the Amur Region.
Source: kallanishenergy.com
"The gas from the Chayandiskoye field in Yakutia has reached the near-(Chinese) border gas metering station in the proximity of Blagoveshchensk. Power of Siberia's linear part is thus ready for the commencement of Russian pipeline gas supplies to China," Gazprom said, in a statement. "The next step is to feed gas into the trans-border crossing under the Amur River," it added. The official delivery of 38 billion cubic meters per year of gas is set to start Dec. 1, for a 30-year period. The Power of Siberia gas trunkline, running roughly 3,000 kilometers (1,864 miles), will transport gas from the Irkutsk and Yakutia gas production centers to consumers in Russia's Far East and China. The pipeline route passes through swampy, mountainous, seismically active, permafrost and rocky areas with extreme environmental conditions. The lowest air temperatures along the route range from -62 degrees Celsius (-146 degrees Fahrenheit) in the Republic of Sakha (Yakutia), to minus 41 degrees Celsius (-105.8 degrees F) in the Amur Region.Source: kallanishenergy.com