Gazprom completes gas filling on TurkStream pipeline 
22112019

0918
Natural GasRussia's Gazprom has completed filling the TurkStream pipeline with natural gas, ahead of its upcoming commissioning, Kallanish Energy reports.The gas giant said the start-up and commissioning process is in its final stage, as the pipeline will be brought into operation "before the end of 2019." The twin pipeline will transport 31.5 billion cubic meters per year of Russian gas to Turkey and Europe.
 
"Currently, both strings of TurkStream -- from the onshore facilities near Anapa to the receiving terminal on the Turkish coast near the Kiyikoy settlement -- are filled up with gas," said Gazprom. "Start-up and commissioning operations are coming to a close at the receiving terminal in Turkey."
 
The Russakaya compression station and the landfall section in Russia are ready for operation.
 
Gazprom has built the offshore section of the pipeline across the Black Sea and Turkish partner Botas built the onshore section in Turkey. The second string of the pipeline, which will deliver gas to south and southeast Europe via Bulgaria, will be built by a Botas-Gazprom joint venture.
Source: kallanishenergy.com
The gas giant said the start-up and commissioning process is in its final stage, as the pipeline will be brought into operation "before the end of 2019." The twin pipeline will transport 31.5 billion cubic meters per year of Russian gas to Turkey and Europe. "Currently, both strings of TurkStream -- from the onshore facilities near Anapa to the receiving terminal on the Turkish coast near the Kiyikoy settlement -- are filled up with gas," said Gazprom. "Start-up and commissioning operations are coming to a close at the receiving terminal in Turkey." The Russakaya compression station and the landfall section in Russia are ready for operation. Gazprom has built the offshore section of the pipeline across the Black Sea and Turkish partner Botas built the onshore section in Turkey. The second string of the pipeline, which will deliver gas to south and southeast Europe via Bulgaria, will be built by a Botas-Gazprom joint venture.Source: kallanishenergy.com