Gazprom begins start-up operations at 3rd gas production facility of Bovanenkovskoye field 
07092018

0932
Natural GasGazprom continues to implement the extensive Eastern Gas Program and to build facilities associated with supplying gas to domestic consumers and to China.A 3rd and final gas production facility of the Bovanenkovskoye field is coming onstream in the Yamal Peninsula, where one of the domestic industry's most important gas production centers is based. The company commenced the start-up of the core process equipment, with commissioning scheduled to take place in 2018. In addition, it was decided to start the full-scale pre-development of Kharasaveyskoye, another large field in Yamal, in 2019.
 
In particular, 119 producing gas wells were drilled at the Chayandinskoye field, the linchpin of the Yakutia gas production center. Also underway is the installation of the gas field's core process equipment.
 
A total of 2,010 kilometers of pipes are already welded and laid for the Power of Siberia gas pipeline between Yakutia and the Russian-Chinese border. This translates into 93 % of the pipeline length. Power of Siberia's 2-string submerged crossing under the Amur River is 78 % complete, with pipe pulling currently in progress in the 2nd tunnel. The Atamanskaya compressor station adjacent to the border is under construction as well.
 
Construction of top-priority facilities for the 1st start-up complex of the Amur Gas Processing Plant (GPP), a key link in the gas supplies chain via Power of Siberia, is running at full speed. Heavy-duty equipment is being delivered to the GPP.
Source: neftegaz.ru
A 3rd and final gas production facility of the Bovanenkovskoye field is coming onstream in the Yamal Peninsula, where one of the domestic industry's most important gas production centers is based. The company commenced the start-up of the core process equipment, with commissioning scheduled to take place in 2018. In addition, it was decided to start the full-scale pre-development of Kharasaveyskoye, another large field in Yamal, in 2019. In particular, 119 producing gas wells were drilled at the Chayandinskoye field, the linchpin of the Yakutia gas production center. Also underway is the installation of the gas field's core process equipment. A total of 2,010 kilometers of pipes are already welded and laid for the Power of Siberia gas pipeline between Yakutia and the Russian-Chinese border. This translates into 93 % of the pipeline length. Power of Siberia's 2-string submerged crossing under the Amur River is 78 % complete, with pipe pulling currently in progress in the 2nd tunnel. The Atamanskaya compressor station adjacent to the border is under construction as well. Construction of top-priority facilities for the 1st start-up complex of the Amur Gas Processing Plant (GPP), a key link in the gas supplies chain via Power of Siberia, is running at full speed. Heavy-duty equipment is being delivered to the GPP.Source: neftegaz.ru