GE Steam Power and partners synchronize 900MW power unit to Polish grid 
16052019

0903
Electricity MarketGE Steam Power, Polska Grupa Energetyczna (PGE) and the GE-led consortium partners have synchronized the Opole Unit 6, with 900MW generating capacity, to the Polish grid.For the Opole Unit 5 & 6 units, GE has supplied its ultra-super critical (USC) coal technology. PGE had chosen GE's technology to be able to use locally available hard coal and also to ensure that high-level technology is put to use in terms of plant efficiency.
 
Once operational, the Opole plant is expected to become Poland's third largest power plant. The two units at the plant will cumulatively generate 1.8GW of electricity, enough to power two million Polish homes or 8% of Polish electricity consumption. The power plant is expected to play a critical role in the country, where electricity demand is expected to grow by 40% by 2040.
 
GE claims that the Opole Units 5 & 6 will have efficiency higher than global average and offer stability to the Polish grid as the country aims to introduce more renewable energy. Being able to use the locally available hard coal, the two units will provide energy security to the country.
 
GE will also install its air quality control systems to meet the latest EU standards in terms of controlling emissions from the plant.
Source: compelo.com
For the Opole Unit 5 & 6 units, GE has supplied its ultra-super critical (USC) coal technology. PGE had chosen GE's technology to be able to use locally available hard coal and also to ensure that high-level technology is put to use in terms of plant efficiency. Once operational, the Opole plant is expected to become Poland's third largest power plant. The two units at the plant will cumulatively generate 1.8GW of electricity, enough to power two million Polish homes or 8% of Polish electricity consumption. The power plant is expected to play a critical role in the country, where electricity demand is expected to grow by 40% by 2040. GE claims that the Opole Units 5 & 6 will have efficiency higher than global average and offer stability to the Polish grid as the country aims to introduce more renewable energy. Being able to use the locally available hard coal, the two units will provide energy security to the country. GE will also install its air quality control systems to meet the latest EU standards in terms of controlling emissions from the plant.Source: compelo.com