Germany set to build LNG terminals amid European gas battle 
14022019

0951
LNGGermany will likely build 2 terminals to import LNG, Economy Minister Peter Altmaier said as Oilprice reported, in a move to appease the U.S. while Berlin also supports the Russia-led Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline, which has divided the EU member states in recent years.<<Germany and the US share an interest in secure and dependable energy supplies,>> the AFP quoted Altmaier as saying in a statement, on the eve of his meeting with U.S. Deputy Secretary of Energy Dan Brouillette.
 
The U.S. has long opposed the Gazprom-led Nord Stream 2 pipeline. Several EU member states, including Poland and Lithuania, also see the new pipeline project as a threat to Europe's energy diversification and as boosting Russia's grip on European gas supplies even more.
 
Germany supports Nord Stream 2 and sees the project as a private commercial venture that will help it to meet rising natural gas demand.
 
Speaking at an LNG Import Conference in Berlin, German Economy Minister Altmaier said that all 3 proposed projects for LNG import terminals in Germany are being carefully considered. <<I am quite optimistic that at least 2 of the terminals will be realised within a very foreseeable period of time,>> Reuters quoted Altmaier as saying.
 
The German minister also stressed that LNG terminals and imports are a completely separate issue from Nord Stream 2.
 
Meanwhile, the U.S. Deputy Secretary of Energy Brouillette tweeted from the Berlin conference: <<Energy security requires energy diversity - a diversity of supply, countries providing that supply, and routes for that supply. The US supports Germany's efforts to increase energy diversity through the construction of LNG shipping terminals - hopefully a destination for US LNG!>>
Source:neftegaz.ru
<<Germany and the US share an interest in secure and dependable energy supplies,>> the AFP quoted Altmaier as saying in a statement, on the eve of his meeting with U.S. Deputy Secretary of Energy Dan Brouillette. The U.S. has long opposed the Gazprom-led Nord Stream 2 pipeline. Several EU member states, including Poland and Lithuania, also see the new pipeline project as a threat to Europe's energy diversification and as boosting Russia's grip on European gas supplies even more. Germany supports Nord Stream 2 and sees the project as a private commercial venture that will help it to meet rising natural gas demand. Speaking at an LNG Import Conference in Berlin, German Economy Minister Altmaier said that all 3 proposed projects for LNG import terminals in Germany are being carefully considered. <<I am quite optimistic that at least 2 of the terminals will be realised within a very foreseeable period of time,>> Reuters quoted Altmaier as saying. The German minister also stressed that LNG terminals and imports are a completely separate issue from Nord Stream 2. Meanwhile, the U.S. Deputy Secretary of Energy Brouillette tweeted from the Berlin conference: <<Energy security requires energy diversity - a diversity of supply, countries providing that supply, and routes for that supply. The US supports Germany's efforts to increase energy diversity through the construction of LNG shipping terminals - hopefully a destination for US LNG!>>Source:neftegaz.ru