Germany postpones decision on coal exit until February 
27112018

0931
CoalGermany has postponed until February a decision on how fast Europe's largest economy should phase out brown-coal-fired power plants and whether the government should compensate utilities as well as regions that could face job losses, a commission said.With brown coal mines the only truly domestic resource in a country reliant on energy imports, Germany faces wrangling over when to abandon coal-burning to meet ambitious climate goals by 2030, as it also wants to be free of nuclear energy by 2022.
 
The German cabinet has appointed a 24-strong group, the coal commission, to find a compromise deal. It was expected to present an exit plan by the end of the year.
 
But after another round of talks in Berlin on Monday, the heads of the coal commission said in a statement that further negotiations were needed and that the group now aimed to wrap up its work on February 1.
 
Two people familiar with the talks told Reuters that Scholz has shown little sympathy for paying compensation to operators of brown-coal-fired power plants that could be forced to shut down early.
 
So far, the coalition parties have agreed to spend 1.5 billion euros ($1.7 billion) to help regions especially affected by structural change such as the planed coal exit.
 
Coal-to-power production both from brown coal and imported hard coal accounts for 40 percent of Germany's total power production, making the exit from coal difficult while maintaining reliable supply to industries and households.
Source: reuters.com
With brown coal mines the only truly domestic resource in a country reliant on energy imports, Germany faces wrangling over when to abandon coal-burning to meet ambitious climate goals by 2030, as it also wants to be free of nuclear energy by 2022. The German cabinet has appointed a 24-strong group, the coal commission, to find a compromise deal. It was expected to present an exit plan by the end of the year. But after another round of talks in Berlin on Monday, the heads of the coal commission said in a statement that further negotiations were needed and that the group now aimed to wrap up its work on February 1. Two people familiar with the talks told Reuters that Scholz has shown little sympathy for paying compensation to operators of brown-coal-fired power plants that could be forced to shut down early. So far, the coalition parties have agreed to spend 1.5 billion euros ($1.7 billion) to help regions especially affected by structural change such as the planed coal exit. Coal-to-power production both from brown coal and imported hard coal accounts for 40 percent of Germany's total power production, making the exit from coal difficult while maintaining reliable supply to industries and households.Source: reuters.com