GIG reaches financial close on 235MW Overturingen wind farm in Sweden 
23072018

0914
WindGreen Investment Group (GIG) has reached a financial close on EUR270m of total funding for the 235MW Overturingen wind farm in Sweden to be developed alongside SCA Energy.The Overturingen wind farm will be owned 100% by GIG, the specialist green energy principal investment business of Macquarie Group.
 
Macquarie Capital (Europe) as the financial adviser to the sponsor on the project, raised EUR160m of senior debt from Credit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank (Credit Agricole CIB) and KfW IPEX-Bank (KfW).
 
While Denmark's Export Credit Agency (EKF) is offering export credit cover, NEAS Energy, a part of Centrica will provide balancing and hedging services for the Swedish wind farm.
 
GIG said that the main construction at the project location is slated to begin very soon and is likely to be completed by December 2019.
 
The Overturingen wind farm will be built at Lansterhojden and Storflotten in the Ange Municipality of Vasternorrland in central Sweden.
 
It will feature 56 wind turbines, each of 4.2MW capacity that will be supplied by Siemens Gamesa. The Spanish turbine manufacturer had also committed to offer operations and maintenance services through a 25-year agreement to the Swedish wind farm.
 
GIG said that it has commercialized, structured and financed the Swedish wind project in partnership with SCA from the development stage to financial close. Included in this is origination and structuring of a 29-year fixed-volume agreement with aluminum company Norsk Hydro.
 
The Overturingen wind farm is the second Swedish onshore project to be supported by GIG in the space of 12 months after the 650MW Markbygden Ett onshore wind farm in northern Sweden where construction is currently going on.
 
GIG reached financial close on the Markbygden Ett wind farm with GE Energy Financial Services (GEEFS) in last November.
Source: compelo.com
The Overturingen wind farm will be owned 100% by GIG, the specialist green energy principal investment business of Macquarie Group. Macquarie Capital (Europe) as the financial adviser to the sponsor on the project, raised EUR160m of senior debt from Credit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank (Credit Agricole CIB) and KfW IPEX-Bank (KfW). While Denmark's Export Credit Agency (EKF) is offering export credit cover, NEAS Energy, a part of Centrica will provide balancing and hedging services for the Swedish wind farm. GIG said that the main construction at the project location is slated to begin very soon and is likely to be completed by December 2019. The Overturingen wind farm will be built at Lansterhojden and Storflotten in the Ange Municipality of Vasternorrland in central Sweden. It will feature 56 wind turbines, each of 4.2MW capacity that will be supplied by Siemens Gamesa. The Spanish turbine manufacturer had also committed to offer operations and maintenance services through a 25-year agreement to the Swedish wind farm. GIG said that it has commercialized, structured and financed the Swedish wind project in partnership with SCA from the development stage to financial close. Included in this is origination and structuring of a 29-year fixed-volume agreement with aluminum company Norsk Hydro. The Overturingen wind farm is the second Swedish onshore project to be supported by GIG in the space of 12 months after the 650MW Markbygden Ett onshore wind farm in northern Sweden where construction is currently going on. GIG reached financial close on the Markbygden Ett wind farm with GE Energy Financial Services (GEEFS) in last November.Source: compelo.com