Greece to put wind vs solar in 600-MW tender in April 
07032019

0915
RenewableGreece will open bidding in its next renewable energy tender on April 15, targeting 600 MW of wind and solar projects, the country's Regulatory Authority for Energy (RAE) announced.The maximum bidding price has been set at EUR 64.72 (USD 73.15) per MWh, according to information released by the regulator. The tender will be open to solar projects with capacities of at least 20 MW, while for wind, the minimum capacity will be 50 MW. Clusters of wind and solar projects using a single substation are also allowed to participate, provided that their combined capacity exceeds 50 MW.
 
Parties willing to participate in the competitive process must submit an online application by March 21 and also need to present a physical copy by March 27. The successful outcome of the tender is not subject to achieving a 75% oversubscription as it was required in earlier bidding rounds. Instead, the tender will be deemed successful if bids for at least 840 MW of capacity are received, equal to a 40% oversubscription level. Another requirement for developers is the availability of a power generation and grid connection agreement for their projects.
Source: renewablesnow.com
The maximum bidding price has been set at EUR 64.72 (USD 73.15) per MWh, according to information released by the regulator. The tender will be open to solar projects with capacities of at least 20 MW, while for wind, the minimum capacity will be 50 MW. Clusters of wind and solar projects using a single substation are also allowed to participate, provided that their combined capacity exceeds 50 MW. Parties willing to participate in the competitive process must submit an online application by March 21 and also need to present a physical copy by March 27. The successful outcome of the tender is not subject to achieving a 75% oversubscription as it was required in earlier bidding rounds. Instead, the tender will be deemed successful if bids for at least 840 MW of capacity are received, equal to a 40% oversubscription level. Another requirement for developers is the availability of a power generation and grid connection agreement for their projects.Source: renewablesnow.com