Grid-Scale Batteries to Provide Balancing Services for Largest Transmission-Connected Storage Network 
26022020

0954
Electricity MarketPivot Power, an EDF Renewables company specializing in battery storage and infrastructure for electric vehicle charging, has placed an order with technology group Wartsila to deliver 100 MW of energy storage in the UK.Pivot Power is developing a world-first national network of grid-scale batteries and high-volume power connections to provide essential capacity for rapid electric vehicle (EV) charging. The first two projects at Cowley in Oxford and Kemsley in Kent are expected to be fully operational before the end of this year.
 
Wartsila will support the projects under 10-year service agreements with flexible performance guarantees. The order was booked with Wartsila in December of 2019.
 
The two 50 MW lithium-ion batteries will be the first projects completed as part of Pivot Power's program to develop, own and operate up to 2GW of grid-scale energy storage and high volume power connections which are directly connected to the UK high-voltage transmission system.
 
The projects will provide flexible capacity and reliability to support increased renewable energy generation and EV charging infrastructure. The UK market for EVs is expected to expand significantly in 2020.
 
This is the largest energy storage deal in Europe for Wartsila, which has set its sights on the UK as a key new market, as part of its plan to lead the global transition towards a 100% clean energy future.
Source: renewableenergymagazine.com
Pivot Power is developing a world-first national network of grid-scale batteries and high-volume power connections to provide essential capacity for rapid electric vehicle (EV) charging. The first two projects at Cowley in Oxford and Kemsley in Kent are expected to be fully operational before the end of this year. Wartsila will support the projects under 10-year service agreements with flexible performance guarantees. The order was booked with Wartsila in December of 2019. The two 50 MW lithium-ion batteries will be the first projects completed as part of Pivot Power's program to develop, own and operate up to 2GW of grid-scale energy storage and high volume power connections which are directly connected to the UK high-voltage transmission system. The projects will provide flexible capacity and reliability to support increased renewable energy generation and EV charging infrastructure. The UK market for EVs is expected to expand significantly in 2020. This is the largest energy storage deal in Europe for Wartsila, which has set its sights on the UK as a key new market, as part of its plan to lead the global transition towards a 100% clean energy future.Source: renewableenergymagazine.com