 OPEC Gulf oil producers have reached a consensus not to  cut oil output when OPEC meets on Thursday in Vienna, a Gulf OPEC  delegate told Reuters.  Separately, Saudi Arabian Oil  Minister Ali al-Naimi confirmed the Gulf states had reached a  unified decision, but did not specify what the consensus was.  Naimi said he believed the oil market "will stabilize itself  eventually," increasing speculation that the Organization of the  Petroleum Exporting Countries' largest producer and exporter, would  not support an output cut at its Thursday meeting.  "The GCC reached a consensus,'' Naimi told reporters, referring  to the Gulf Cooperation Council. "We are very confident that OPEC  will have a unified position."  Benchmark Brent futures were down  68 cents at $77.65 a barrel by 1:20 p.m. ET, having hit a  low of $77.30 in the session. U.S. crude was down 53 cents at $73.56, having hit a  low of $73.30.  Other oil minister comments indicated a similar outlook to Naimi.  "The market will fix itself ultimately," United Arab Emirates Oil Minister Suhail bin  Mohammed al-Mazroui told Reuters in an interview. The OPEC meeting will be one of its most crucial in  recent years, with oil having tumbled to below  $78 a barrel due to the U.S. shale boom and  slower economic growth in China and Europe. Read MoreOil prices lower as market braces for  OPEC meeting  Cutting output unilaterally would effectively mean for  OPEC, which accounts for a third of global oil output,  a further loss of market share to North  American shale oil producers.  If OPEC decided against cutting and rolled over  existing output levels on Thursday, that would  effectively mean a price war that the Saudis  and other Gulf producers could withstand due to  their large foreign-exchange reserves. Other members, such  as Venezuela or Iran, would find it much more  difficult. Iranian Oil Minister Bijan  Zangeneh, often among the first to call for cuts, added to  expectations the group will not take any dramatic action in  Vienna, saying he and Naimi were now "very close" in their  positions and that there was "unity" in the group to monitor  the market. Read MoreOPEC needs to 'wake up' to  shale revolution  Kuwait's oil minister said  Wednesday the OPEC member will have to accept any  market price of oil. "We have  to live either with $80 or with $60 or with  $100," Ali Saleh al-Omair told  reporters. Three OPEC delegates had previously told Reuters that OPEC  is unlikely to cut its oil output ceiling at the meeting, citing  high supplies from some members and non-OPEC producers.  Early rumblings had indicated  that the Saudis would move to push for cuts of up to 1.5 million  barrels a day to help re-balance the market and lift prices. Read MoreConsumer discretionary sector may be  messenger about OPEC  "Only a 1.5 million barrel-a-day reduction would help stabilize  the price at this stage," Ole Sloth Hansen, head of commodity  strategy at Saxo Bank, said earlier to CNBC. "If no  action is taken the market will see this as a renewed selling  opportunity." In a recent survey, only 11 out of 30  strategists polled by CNBC said they thought OPEC will decide not  to take any action this Thursday.  In October, members of OPEC produced about 30.6  million barrels a day, despite an official quota of 30 million,  according to the International Energy Agency. Price war  Among the members of OPEC, Venezuela and Iraq have called  for output cuts.  "The onslaught of North American shale oil has  drastically undermined OPEC's position and reduced its  market share," said Dr. Gary Ross, chief  executive of PIRA Energy Group.  Russia, which produces 10.5 million barrels per day (bpd)  or 11 percent of global oil, came to Tuesday's meeting  amid hints it might agree to cut output as it  suffers from oil's price fall and Western  sanctions over Moscow's actions in Ukraine. Read MoreRussia revs up oil bears  ahead of OPEC meeting  But as that meeting with Naimi and officials from  Venezuela and non-OPEC member Mexico ended, Russia's most  influential oil official, state firm Rosneft's head Igor Sechin, emerged with a surprise  message—Russia will not reduce output even if oil falls  to $60 per barrel.  Sechin added that he expected low oil prices to do  more damage to producing nations with higher costs, in  a clear reference to the U.S. shale boom. On  Wednesday, Russian Energy Minister Alexander  Novak said he expected the country's output to  be flat next year.  Many at OPEC were surprised by Sechin's suggestion  that Russia—in desperate need of oil prices above  $100 per barrel to balance its budget—was  ready for a price war.  "Gulf states are less bothered about a price drop  compared to other OPEC members," an OPEC source close  to Gulf thinking said. Read MoreUS energy production  grows—so will US power  OPEC publications have shown that global supply will  exceed demand by more than 1 million barrels per day  in the first half of next year.  While the statistics speak in favour of a cut, the  build-up to the OPEC meeting has seen one of the most  heated debates in years about the next policy  step for the group.  "The idea of unleashing a price war against U.S. shale  oil seems strange to me. I doubt you can win this  battle as most U.S. oil producers are hedging a  lot of their output," said a top oil executive  visiting Vienna for talks with OPEC ministers. —CNBC's Everett Rosenfeld, Sri Jegarajah and Stephen Sedgwick also  contributed reporting.