  Billionaire oilman Harold Hamm told CNBC on Friday that OPEC has been trying for decades through  price wars to crush U.S. crude production. "Sometimes they're  successful. This time we hope they're not," he said.  The American shale oil boom is viewed by Saudi Arabia as an  economic threat, the founder and chief of Continental Resources said in a "Squawk Box" interview. "I think the Saudis  have made up their mind they're not going to bear the brunt of a  cut, so they force everybody else to do it." As a  result, Hamm argued the OPEC cartel—of which the Saudis  are the largest producer—is "not very strong at all"  nowadays. But the fallout from Saudi Arabia's hard line on  production has turned the Russian "ruble into rubble," while also  putting the squeeze on U.S. producers, he said. "All we can do as  a company is cutback and cut capex  [capital expenditures]." U.S. oil prices—measured as West  Texas Intermediate crude—have fallen more than 50 percent  since June. But WTI has a chance Friday on the last trading day  of February to avoid an eighth straight monthly decline should  crude settle higher. Prices were off to a strong start in early  trading Friday. The number to watch is $48.24 a barrel—the  settlement level on January's last trading day.Even with the lower oil prices, Hamm has been a vocal advocate of  overturning the 40-year ban on U.S. producers from exporting  crude. He's optimistic about the chances. "I think it could be  done away with by executive order. I would expect the president to  do that."  Earlier this month, Rep. Joe Barton unveiled a bill to remove the export restrictions. The  Texas Republican said at the time that "pressure to remove the ban on  crude oil exports is growing from both ends of the political  spectrum."Whether full oil exports are eventually allowed, Hamm said the U.S. might be able to start really weaning itself off foreign exports. "We should be energy self-sufficient in five years, by 2020, in this  country. We're only about 5 million barrels [a day] away from  that."