 Hillary Clinton said during the second presidential  debate on Sunday that the United States has achieved energy  independence, but the country still imports millions of barrels a  day of oil and petroleum products — much of it from  the Middle East.  In response to a town hall question on how she would meet  America's energy needs, Clinton said: "You know that we are now  for the first time ever energy independent. We are not  dependent upon the Middle East."  "We've got to remain energy-independent. It gives us much more  power and freedom than to be worried about what goes on in the  Middle East," she added.  The United States imported 9.4 million barrels of crude and  petroleum products in 2015, and imports are on the rise this  year, according to U.S. Energy Information Administration data.  Of the 2015 total, 2.9 million barrels came from OPEC countries,  and 1.5 million came from Persian Gulf countries.  To be sure, U.S. energy independence has advanced. Last year,  about 24 percent of petroleum consumed in the United States came  from abroad, the lowest level since 1970, according to the EIA.  But while a revolution in U.S. and Canadian oil drilling has  significantly reduced the country's reliance on imports from OPEC  since 2007 — when annual imports from the cartel were nearly 6 million  barrels a day — the United States is far from energy  independent.The overstatement reflects one of Clinton's more outsized energy policy promises, already reported by CNBC: She has vowed to slash U.S. oil consumption in the next  decade as part of an overall plan to shift the country to clean,  renewable energy, but experts say her goal is probably  impossible.  Clinton's target — to cut U.S. oil consumption by a third by 2027  — is an example of her hard line on fossil fuels  during the Democratic primary and the general election. But  some of her tough talk leaves her considerable wiggle room and  contrasts with her record while serving as America's top  diplomat.   That record includes a program to promote natural gas development  overseas through the use of hydraulic fracturing, a method of  unlocking oil and gas from rock formations by pummeling them with  water, minerals and chemicals. "Fracking" is widely opposed by  environmentalists.  CNBC asked experts to assess Clinton's energy proposals after  carrying out a similar evaluation of  Donald Trump's claims that he would boost economic  growth by rolling back regulations and expanding drilling.  Clinton says she would extend standards for vehicle fuel  efficiency, methane emissions, building codes and appliance  standards that President Barack  Obama implemented or supported, according to a campaign  spokesperson. Clinton supports Obama initiatives like the Clean  Power Plan and new Environmental Protection Agency regulations on  oil and gas drilling, which have drawn the ire of the energy  industry and legal challenges. She also backs raising the royalty  rates for drilling on federal land and cutting tax breaks for oil  and gas firms, and she opposes offshore fossil fuel development  in the Arctic and Atlantic oceans.  That said, while the Obama administration has ratcheted up  regulations and limited drilling on federal land, it also  presided over a 75 percent increase in U.S. crude output in its  first seven years. The boom continued until a sharp oil price  downturn forced American producers to cut back output.  Clinton seeks to generate 33 percent of U.S. energy capacity from  renewable sources, enough to power every home in America, and  would launch a $60 billion program to help  states and cities make buildings more efficient.  But Clinton's goal is considerably more aggressive than the  International Energy Agency's view on the medium-term trend  outlined earlier this year in an annual report. It sees U.S.  consumption dropping by just a quarter by 2040.  It would also represent a remarkable acceleration of the current  trend. In the last 10 years, crude oil and petroleum products  used by American business and citizens fell just 6.7 percent  — or just one-fifth of the pace Clinton is projecting.   The Clinton campaign did not immediately respond to a request for comment, and declined to respond when CNBC first published a reports on Clinton's energy policy promise.  At present, it would be difficult to see U.S. oil consumption  falling that rapidly, and the campaign promise should be taken  more as a sign of Clinton's dedication to emissions than as an  actually achievable target, said Antoine Halff, former chief oil  analyst at the International Energy Agency.  "As an ambition, it's legitimate. As a projection, it's  aspirational," he told CNBC. "It's not necessarily to be taken at  face value as a forecast."  The Clinton campaign has not detailed a plan for how it would  achieve its goal. It has proposed offering grants to phase out  home heating fuel, supporting electric vehicle infrastructure and  more quickly deploying natural gas-fueled trucks, buses, trains  and ships.  Halff is now working with researchers at Columbia's Center on  Global Energy Policy to build models that can forecast how  electric vehicles, ride-sharing and a host of other factors could  affect energy markets in the future.   Motor gasoline accounted for nearly half of America's total  petroleum product consumption of 19.4 million barrels a day last  year, so fuel efficiency and electric vehicle adoption would have  to play a significant role in driving down oil demand on a large  scale.  In Halff's view, the research necessary to back a target as  ambitious as Clinton's remains incomplete.  "I don't think anybody has clear visibility on how quickly and on  what scale those changes could affect the market," he said.  Peter Saundry, chief scientist at the National Council for  Science and the Environment, says he too believes Clinton's oil  consumption goal would be difficult to accomplish.  One reason: New, advanced biofuels have failed to deliver on  early expectations, confounding attempts to increase the ratio of  products like ethanol that are mixed into gasoline under the  EPA's national Renewable Fuel Standard Program, Saundry  said.   At the same time, oil prices have remained persistently low  following a price collapse in 2014, raising demand for SUVs and  pickup trucks and emboldening the auto industry to push back on  fuel standards, he said.  "That doesn't help achieve those standards, because there's a  profit motivation to sell those heavier gas guzzling vehicles,"  Saundry told CNBC.  Clinton could opt to take an inflexible stance on fuel standards  and even lobby for a gasoline tax, but she would have limited  ability as president to ramp up adoption of electric vehicles, in  Saundry's view. Their success depends on the continued decline in  the cost of vehicle batteries as technology improves, he  explained.  Essentially, it would take a perfect storm to reach her goal, and  such a combination is not likely to brew anytime soon.  The energy industry has prepared for a decline in oil consumption  as the developed world weans itself off hydrocarbons, but the  prospect of a rapid decline on the scale that Clinton is  promising would be "a different story," Columbia's Halff said.  "It could lead to a very bumpy adjustment period," he said,  though he cautioned that any such decline is hypothetical, and so  projecting its impact is dicey.  Trump energy advisor and fracking mogul Harold Hamm has claimed  Clinton "would eliminate fossil  fuel development in America," but that claim is likely  an overstatement.  For one, the State Department under Clinton launched the Bureau  of Resource Management, which sought to export shale drilling  capabilities in order to reduce U.S. allies' reliance on coal and  natural gas from Russia.  Clinton took a harder stance on fracking while locked in a tough  primary with Sen. Bernie Sanders, who  backs a national ban on the drilling method, but a close  examination of her statements shows she has left herself  considerable leeway to allow fracking to operate largely as it  does already.  During a primary debate in March, Clinton outlined three  conditions under which she does not support fracking: when a  locality or state opposes it, when the chemicals used in fracking  fluids are not subject to disclosure and when it leads to the  release of methane or contaminates water sources.  Clinton said by the time those conditions are addressed, she does  not think "there will be many places in America where fracking  will continue to take place." But in fact, there are few places  under federal jurisdiction where those conditions exist and have  not already been addressed by the Obama administration.Among the four states that ban hydraulic fracturing, only New York has significant natural gas reserves. And while a number of cities and counties have put up challenges to fracking, the oil and gas industry is hardly under siege.For example, the Colorado Supreme Court this year ruled that state fracking regulations supersede local measures, in the process overturning a moratorium on fracking enforced by the cities of Fort Collins and Longmont. In August, efforts to limit drilling in the state failed to make the ballot.As for disclosure of fracking fluids, that's currently regulated by states. The Clinton campaign told CNBC it supports passing national rules requiring the disclosure of fracking fluids, something for which groups including the National Resources Defense Council have long advocated.Current state rules include loopholes such as trade secret exemptions meant to protect drillers' formulas for fracking fluids.  That leaves the issue of water contamination and methane pollution. The draft summary of a 2015 EPA study found it was possible for fracking to contaminate water, but turned up no evidence fracking has "led to widespread, systemic impacts on drinking water resources in the United States."The methane issue could be trickier, since it's common for drillers to flare off the greenhouse gas as part of normal operations. However, the United States is already on track to tackle those emissions.The Environmental Protection Agency has issued new rules for regulating the release of methane from new or modified well equipment. Industry watchers fully expect the EPA to apply these rules to existing wells, and indeed, the agency's new rules came with a request for information from drillers on how the measures could be applied retroactively.