International sanctions against Iran  were lifted over the  weekend after the United Nations nuclear agency  declared Tehran had fulfilled its commitment to scale back its  nuclear program.  This means that the OPEC  member will now be  able to export oil, sending a wave of fear across the already  weak markets which have been plagued by an energy supply  surplus.  Oil prices tanked  in early Asian trade Monday and are now  about 70 percent lower from the summer of 2014 when  prices began their extended decline  Experts weigh in on how Iran's re-entry into the global oil  markets will impact the sector:"Instead of acting as an early indicator like it used to be in  the past, the oil price drop is being driven down by  deliberate OPEC oversupply, not weak demand (demand is  red hot and never been as strong as it is now). So the current stance  of the oil market should be a boon for the economies (of oil  consuming countries) and the financial markets, not a bust.""The likely increase of Iranian oil production could not  have come at a more unfavorable point in time with the oil market oversupplied amid renewed economic concerns (particularly  related to China) darkening the outlook for oil demand growth.  "With market participants likely opting for the worst outcome,  which would swell the global oversupply even further, lower  prices are required to shut-in production from non-OPEC  countries, particularly the U.S. These adjustments are likely to (contribute to) even more company defaults related to oil, as well as  less investment spending across the oil sector.""I'd find it hard to believe it has a bigger effect than (a small  knee-jerk reaction)  "We believe Iran will only be able to bring oil to the market  gradually – they are only likely to increase production by  around 250,000 to 400,000 million barrels a day relatively  quickly, but will then face technical constraints that require  western expertise and investment.""I think Iran will return to the market as fast as they  reasonably can - they need the revenues.  "Iran won't return to its pre-sanctions export levels, at least  not until they have received substantial new investment, taking  several years. But I do expect 600,000-800,000 barrels a day  extra over the course of 2016. I don't expect substantial damage  to the fields, as the shut-in was quite predictable and was not  caused by war etc.  "I wouldn't expect a further sharp price fall, given how far  prices have already fallen, and this news was quite well  flagged.""Iran has pre-sold the oil so we know more than half is not  coming to Asia. We can identify, Greece, Spain and Italy for  around 200,000 barrels a day, then Turkey and South Africa for around 150,000 barrels a day,  Korea, India and Sri Lanka and some others for the rest.  "The market will (open lower) but by the end of the week, this impact may  be gone. It is the bigger supply issue which is driving the  market and Iran is just one part of the puzzle.  "Size matters, so market share is not only about money but about  how important you are. Iran was the second largest OPEC  exporter and important. With sanctions, it lost money and  became irrelevant. It becomes relevant again and becomes now  number three after the Iraqis."  Follow CNBC International on Twitter and Facebook.