  Condensates—a super-light oil that's a byproduct of the U.S.  shale boom—could help open the door to eventual crude  exports.The relatively obscure fuel source, derived from the light, sweet  oil being that's churned out domestically, is used mainly by  chemical companies and refiners. Condensates were thrust into the  spotlight this week, after the U.S. granted approval to two  companies to export limited quantities of condensates  At this point, analysts say the Commerce Department's  authorization to ship the light, gassy fuel abroad is more  symbolic than substantive. However, the move is being interpreted  by some as a sign that a lifting of the domestic ban on most oil  exports is less a question of if than when. Read MoreAmericans should win if U.S. oil  producers export  Loosening restrictions on condensates "is certainly a baby step,  but also a significant step toward lifting the ban totally," said  Charles Ebinger, director of the Brookings Institution's Energy  Security Initiative. Although the export barrier is still in  place for now, "enough pressure is building. Don't be surprised  if they lift the ban totally in the first part of the year" after  elections have passed, he said.     Key members of Congress have  advocated using condensates as  a way around the export ban. In April, Alaska Republican Senator  Lisa Murkowski said Commerce Department had the authority to  "act on its own" to allow the fuel to be  shipped abroad.   One of the reasons condensates have become so closely linked to  the export debate is because of the fine line that keeps the  liquid from being lumped in with actual crude. The industry  standard uses a measure called API gravity, which determines the weight of petroleum relative  to water. Substances above a certain threshold—roughly 45  degrees API—are considered condensates.  That means a bit of creative interpretation can make the  difference between whether what's being shipped is considered  crude or its lighter cousin, noted Paul Rolniak, vice president  of energy consulting firm EAI.  Read MoreWill oil exports cut your energy bill?  Some say no  At a certain threshold, "some people say its condensate, others  say its crude," said Rolniak, adding that shale hotspots are  "loaded up" with condensates, making it potentially lucrative for  U.S. firms.   "Producing companies like to cram as much light material as they  can into crude oil," which can make it more valuable, he added.  In a forthcoming study on the condensate market, Brookings  estimates the U.S. could ship 700,000 barrels of condensates a  day—which could rise to about 800,000 in 2020 before  declining—largely because demand for the substance is  limited.  "It can't be used in power generation, and the market isn't that  huge internationally, but it's very profitable," Ebinger says.  Instability in traditional production hubs such as Libya, Nigeria  and Angola has taken condensate supply off the market and created  an opening for U.S. companies to sell domestic condensate to  European refineries. Read MoreMonterey downgrade won't dent US shale  boom—yet  To be certain, condensates are a niche market globally, and a  small slice of total domestic production. According to a recent  analysis from Bentek Energy, the fuel will represent a mere 17  percent of total U.S. oil production by 2023, growing by about 1  million barrels a day over the next decade – a sliver of the  more than 8 million barrels of oil produced domestically.  "The challenge will be finding big markets for this stuff," said  Sunil Sibal, a senior analyst at Global Hunter Securities.  "This is not crude…it definitely has a market overseas but  it's not a fungible market."  Still, the substance is produced in abundance in U.S. shale  hotspots like Eagle Ford in Texas, Bakken in Montana, and  Marcellus in West Virginia and Pennsylvania. For that reason  alone, condensate has found itself at the center of a debate  about ending the near-total ban on shipping U.S. oil abroad. —By CNBC's Javier David.