Hungary Offers to Buy 25% of LNG Terminal on Krk 
15042019

0859
LNGThe Hungarian government has made an offer to buy 25 percent of a LNG terminal that is to be built in Croatia, Hungarian Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto told journalists in Dubrovnik on Friday, according to MTI news agency.The Hungarian foreign minister said that Croatia had "not yet provided a clear answer" on the matter, as the country wants to take a decision on Hungary's offer at the same time as it contracts gas volume. Investing in the terminal is "a strategic issue" but "we will certainly not buy gas at a higher price than at present," he said, adding that the negotiations would continue.
 
The value of the floating LNG terminal on Krk island is estimated at 234 million euro. The European Commission has approved a 101.4 million euro grant for the project, which is included on the Commission's list of projects of common interest.
 
The Croatian government has decided to set aside 100 million euro for the project, 50 million in 2019 and as much in 2020. The remaining 32.6 million euro will be provided by the founders of the LNG Croatia company - the HEP national electricity provider and the Plinacro gas network operator.
Source: total-croatia-news.com
The Hungarian foreign minister said that Croatia had "not yet provided a clear answer" on the matter, as the country wants to take a decision on Hungary's offer at the same time as it contracts gas volume. Investing in the terminal is "a strategic issue" but "we will certainly not buy gas at a higher price than at present," he said, adding that the negotiations would continue. The value of the floating LNG terminal on Krk island is estimated at 234 million euro. The European Commission has approved a 101.4 million euro grant for the project, which is included on the Commission's list of projects of common interest. The Croatian government has decided to set aside 100 million euro for the project, 50 million in 2019 and as much in 2020. The remaining 32.6 million euro will be provided by the founders of the LNG Croatia company - the HEP national electricity provider and the Plinacro gas network operator.Source: total-croatia-news.com