Iberdrola gets EU loan for 1.2 GW hydropower in Portugal 
24072018

0911
HydroThe European Investment Bank will provide a EUR 650m loan to Spanish utility Iberdrola to support a three-dam hydropower project in Portugal, totalling 1,158 MW in capacity that will be operational in 2023, according to a statement on Monday.The funding enables Iberdrola to invest EUR 1.5bn to construct three new large dams and hydropower plants, including a pump storage plant, which will be located on the Tamega and Torno rivers in northern Portugal.
 
"By increasing generation and storage capacity, the new plants will provide more flexibility and security of energy supply on the Iberian electricity market," the EIB said in a statement.
 
The dams, located in the Douro River Basin, are expected to provide an average of nearly 1.8 TWh per year to the Iberian market.
 
Iberdrola's agreement with the EIB on Monday sees the delivery of the first tranche of the loan, totalling EUR 500m.
 
"This EIB financing will support the increase of renewable generation in the Portuguese energy mix and will contribute to a sustainable and secure supply of energy," said Emma Navarro, EIB vice president, in the statement.
 
Iberdrola is the biggest hydropower producer in Spain with almost 13 GW in capacity, more than half of the country's 20 GW fleet.
Source: montelnews.com
The funding enables Iberdrola to invest EUR 1.5bn to construct three new large dams and hydropower plants, including a pump storage plant, which will be located on the Tamega and Torno rivers in northern Portugal. "By increasing generation and storage capacity, the new plants will provide more flexibility and security of energy supply on the Iberian electricity market," the EIB said in a statement. The dams, located in the Douro River Basin, are expected to provide an average of nearly 1.8 TWh per year to the Iberian market. Iberdrola's agreement with the EIB on Monday sees the delivery of the first tranche of the loan, totalling EUR 500m. "This EIB financing will support the increase of renewable generation in the Portuguese energy mix and will contribute to a sustainable and secure supply of energy," said Emma Navarro, EIB vice president, in the statement. Iberdrola is the biggest hydropower producer in Spain with almost 13 GW in capacity, more than half of the country's 20 GW fleet.Source: montelnews.com