 The next few weeks will give investors an insight into  whether the production cuts by OPEC and non-OPEC will be fully  implemented and will be a crucial period for prices of the  commodity, according to a new monthly report by the IEA  (International Energy Agency). "For contractual and logistical reasons, we might initially  see that the output cuts do not fall neatly into place," the  Paris-based organization said in the report  Tuesday. "The deal is for six months and we should allow time for it  to be implemented before re-assessing our market outlook. Success  means the reinforcement of prices and revenue stability for  producers after two difficult years; failure risks starting a  fourth year of stock builds and a possible return to lower  prices," the IEA added.   After several meetings this year, OPEC countries decided to  cut production by 1.2 million barrels a day starting in January.  Non-OPEC members, such as Russia, joined the efforts earlier this  month sending oil prices higher.  According to Neil Atkinson, head of the oil industry and markets  division at the IEA, it was in the "mutual interest" of OPEC and  non-OPEC members to reach such an agreement.   "We know the financial situation of many of the producers is  fairly challenging whether they are OPEC and non-OPEC," Atkinson  told CNBC on Tuesday.  "The main dynamic which is facing all of the producers, whether  they are OPEC or non-OPEC, was that had the current market  situation remained in place we would have gone into 2017 and  probably through most of 2017 with the oil market still in  considerably surplus supply over demand, and that would be the  fourth year in a row where that situation prevailed," Atkinson  said.   The agency added in the report that as OPEC  was deciding to cut production last month, its crude output in  November was 34.2 million barrels per day (mb/d) - a  record high - and 300,000 barrels a day higher than in October.  The IEA also upped its forecast for global oil demand for  this year and next year due to revised  estimates for Russian and Chinese demand. It saw  growth of 1.4 mb/d for 2016, 120,000 barrels a day above the  previous forecast. Growth in 2017 is now seen at 1.3 mb/d, an  increase of 110,000 barrels a day from its previous estimate.  Follow CNBC International on Twitter and Facebook. 