IEA Global energy needs to be met by renewables and natural gas in the next 25 years 
17112017

1530
RenewableAccording to the World Energy Outlook 2017, the abundant growth in oil and gas production from the United States, strong reductions in the cost of renewables and emerging electrification are changing the global power system and ending traditional ways of meeting demand. Meanwhile, a greener and more diversified energy mix in China is another important driver of this transformation.Over the next 25 years, the world's increasing energy needs are satisfied mainly by renewables and natural gas, while golden period of coal is over. Sharply declining costs turn solar power into the least expensive source of new electricity generation. Global energy demand could jump by 30% by 2040 - but still half as much as it would have been without efficiency improvements. 
 
Solar PV might be a leader in capacity additions, due to deployment in China and India. Nevertheless, wind energy in the European Union becomes the major source of electricity soon after 2030.

Dr Fatih Birol, the IEA's executive director declared: "Electric vehicles (EVs) are in the fast lane as a result of government support and declining battery costs but it is far too early to write the obituary of oil, as growth for trucks, aviation, petrochemicals and shipping keep pushing demand higher. The US becomes the undisputed leader for oil and gas production for decades, which represents a major upheaval for international market dynamics".
 
This year, WEO-2017 concentrates mainly on China, where economic and energy policy changes will have a deep influence on the country's energy mix, and will continue to outline world trends. China's development results might be in a new phase as its economy is less dependent on heavy industry and coal. 
 
According to the WEO-2017, carbon emissions were estimated at 197 million tons by the end of September, being traded in the pilot cities with a total value of $677.45 million. 
 
Over the next 25 years, the world's increasing energy needs are satisfied mainly by renewables and natural gas, while golden period of coal is over. Sharply declining costs turn solar power into the least expensive source of new electricity generation. Global energy demand could jump by 30% by 2040 - but still half as much as it would have been without efficiency improvements.  Solar PV might be a leader in capacity additions, due to deployment in China and India. Nevertheless, wind energy in the European Union becomes the major source of electricity soon after 2030.
Dr Fatih Birol, the IEA's executive director declared: "Electric vehicles (EVs) are in the fast lane as a result of government support and declining battery costs but it is far too early to write the obituary of oil, as growth for trucks, aviation, petrochemicals and shipping keep pushing demand higher. The US becomes the undisputed leader for oil and gas production for decades, which represents a major upheaval for international market dynamics". This year, WEO-2017 concentrates mainly on China, where economic and energy policy changes will have a deep influence on the country's energy mix, and will continue to outline world trends. China's development results might be in a new phase as its economy is less dependent on heavy industry and coal.  According to the WEO-2017, carbon emissions were estimated at 197 million tons by the end of September, being traded in the pilot cities with a total value of $677.45 million. 
 