India will rejoin the ranks of the fastest  growing major economies in the world next fiscal year,  even as a massive cash crunch is expected to drag  growth lower in the current year.India's economy is forecast to grow 7.5 percent in the  financial year through March 2018, according to Deutsche  Bank. Goldman Sachs pegged the number higher at 8.6  percent.In the short-term, experts predict a  sizable dent to growth in the final two quarters of fiscal 2017,  led by a sharp drop in consumption as a  result of the government's attempts to crack down on undeclared  income and counterfeit notes. Deutsche Bank  expects India's overall growth to slow to 6.5 percent on-year  in the current fiscal year. By contrast, Deutsche Bank expects the Philippines, another major Asian economy, to grow 6.8 percent in 2016. An exact comparison between the two countries, however, is somewhat complicated since the Philippines uses a calendar year to report economic data, while India calculates its fiscal year from April to March.India demonetized 86 percent of total  value of currency in circulation in a country that is heavily  reliant on cash, bringing daily life to a halt. Prime Minister Narendra Modi anticipates some relief early  next year. On Monday, Reuters reported activity in  India's services sector contracted last month, with the  Nikkei/Markit Services Purchasing Managers' Index sinking to  46.7 from 54.5 in October. A reading below 50 indicates  contraction. "We see this as a one-off," Taimur Baig, chief Asia  economist at Deutsche Bank told CNBC. "There won't be a  major permanent loss of activity or wealth (and it will) rebound  by the time the dust settles in March, April of next  year."  The recovery will be supported by growing  agricultural demand due to a better-than-expected monsoon season  in fiscal 2017, higher wages for public servants due to a wage bill passed in June 2016 and increased  public spending, Baig said.Deutsche Bank's forecasts show private  consumption is expected to grow by 8.1 percent on-year in  the 2018 fiscal year.  In fiscal 2017, private consumption is  predicted to grow only 5.9 percent on-year.    Capital expenditure in India's private sector has been  lackluster as companies and public sector banks have  struggled with bad debts and  non-performing assets.   "The bad debt problem in the corporate sector is still  substantial," said Baig. He added that banks have to recapitalize  themselves and clean up their balance sheets before they become a  far more "enthusiastic participant in domestic fixed asset  formation," a scenario not likely to play out over the next  four-to-six quarters.  In the 2016-17 budget, India's government allocated 250 billion  rupees ($3.67 billion) toward the recapitalization of public  sector banks.  Baig,  however, reckoned the pace at which the government was pursuing  banking sector restructuring was "fairly slow." Indian companies have historically relied on bank loans to raise  resources. With the availability of loans scarce in the next  several quarters, experts believe companies could turn to the  bond market for capital raising.  "We've seen a very sharp decline in bond yields so non-bank  financing might be the first area where we see some encouraging  developments," said Baig.   Since bond prices move inversely to yields, a lower yield  suggests a higher demand for bonds among investors.Inflation, which is expected to dip in the current fiscal  year as consumption drops, is predicted to rebound in fiscal  2018. Goldman Sachs expects core inflation to rise gradually to  5.3 percent on-year from 4.7 percent in fiscal 2017.  The investment bank reckoned prices will be driven by  disbursement of housing rent allowances to central government  employees as well as climbing energy prices.  Oil prices have remained steady above the $50 a barrel mark since  last week, when OPEC announced plans to reduce production by  1.2 million barrels a day by January 2017.   Experts see higher oil prices as a headwind for India since it is  a net importer and has, in recent years, benefited notably from  the slump in commodity prices.  Baig, however, disagreed and said even as an importer, India's  oil refining sectors would receive some boost from the rise in  oil prices. Deutsche Bank expected India's trade account  deficit to only rise gradually over the next few  years.   — Follow CNBC International on Twitter and Facebook.