India and Kazakhstan will expand cooperation on hydrocarbon 
22092017

1610
Energy MarketIndia envisages a tight and deep cooperation with Kazakhstan in hydrocarbon issue.  
It is said that Indian firms could participate in the oil and gas sector of the biggest country in Central Asia. In its turn, Kazakh authorities seek for the opportunity to provide India with gas. 

The 13th meeting of the Indo-Kazakh Intergovernmental Commission (IGC) on trade and economic, scientific, technical, industrial and cultural cooperation held in Astana earlier this week set up the paths for both countries to closely cooperate in the energy sector. 
 
During the event, it has been decided to determine the possibility of partnership in the field of nuclear fuel and its components transportation. Kazakhstan provides India with uranium.
 
One of India's initiatives was urging Kazakhstan to join the International Solar Alliance.
 
The coal, mining and mineral sectors of the economy were closely examined at the meeting making the parties interested in a sustainable and long-term cooperation.  
 It is said that Indian firms could participate in the oil and gas sector of the biggest country in Central Asia. In its turn, Kazakh authorities seek for the opportunity to provide India with gas. 
The 13th meeting of the Indo-Kazakh Intergovernmental Commission (IGC) on trade and economic, scientific, technical, industrial and cultural cooperation held in Astana earlier this week set up the paths for both countries to closely cooperate in the energy sector.  During the event, it has been decided to determine the possibility of partnership in the field of nuclear fuel and its components transportation. Kazakhstan provides India with uranium. One of India's initiatives was urging Kazakhstan to join the International Solar Alliance. The coal, mining and mineral sectors of the economy were closely examined at the meeting making the parties interested in a sustainable and long-term cooperation.  