Innogy enters Australian solar market with projects totaling 460 MW 
20022018

1652
SolarGerman energy company Innogy acquired project rights for two solar power plants in Australia estimated at over 460 megawatts in the context of its green energy extension outside its main European market.The projects, located in New South Wales, were purchased from Overland Sun Farming, according to Innogy. The construction is likely to begin in 2018 and will require more than 400 million euros of funding.
 
Uwe Tigges, the Chief Executive declared: "This is a perfect fit with our strategy to deliver sustainable bottom line growth in accordance with Innogy's financial targets to maximise value for the company and our shareholders."
 
Previously, Innogy inked a deal in December aiming the acquisition of onshore wind power projects with more than 2 gigawatts of capacity in the United States. This was the first move into the second largest wind market globally.
 
Innogy stated it would revise all the possibilities related to the Australian project's ownership and financing structure.

The two solar plants are likely to start commercial operation by the end of 2019. Also, Innogy added it was also looking at investment opportunities in the sphere of battery storage and onshore wind in Australia.
The projects, located in New South Wales, were purchased from Overland Sun Farming, according to Innogy. The construction is likely to begin in 2018 and will require more than 400 million euros of funding. Uwe Tigges, the Chief Executive declared: "This is a perfect fit with our strategy to deliver sustainable bottom line growth in accordance with Innogy's financial targets to maximise value for the company and our shareholders." Previously, Innogy inked a deal in December aiming the acquisition of onshore wind power projects with more than 2 gigawatts of capacity in the United States. This was the first move into the second largest wind market globally. 
Innogy stated it would revise all the possibilities related to the Australian project's ownership and financing structure.
The two solar plants are likely to start commercial operation by the end of 2019. Also, Innogy added it was also looking at investment opportunities in the sphere of battery storage and onshore wind in Australia.