  Fears of slowing oil demand, a global crude glut and Middle  East woes spooked the market at the beginning of the year, but  now, a change of heart could guide oil to $50, according  to an RBC Capital Markets strategist.   "[The] market's psychology has changed," Helima Croft, RBC  Capital Market's head of global commodities strategies, told  CNBC's "Power Lunch" on Monday. "Everyone is thinking about now the recovery to $50," she  said, adding that OPEC's freeze talk has influenced market  sentiment.   International benchmark Brent went just slightly above $41 a barrel  in intraday trading Monday before settling at $40.84, up more than 5 percent; West Texas Intermediate also rose more than 5 percent to settle at $37.90 on the day. While $40 oil seemed farfetched to some just a month ago the case for $50 oil has been gaining momentum. A few weeks ago, Mike Wittner, head of  U.S. commodities research at Societe Generale, told CNBC's  "Closing Bell" that fundamentals support $40 oil, and that by year-end the market will see $50 oil.   The psychology behind the current boost in oil prices, according  to Croft, is that OPEC producers have realized they need $50 oil, and are worried that lower oil prices  would elicit further credit ratings downgrades and expedite  austerity measures.   Still, Iran has made clear that it seeks to increase production given that sanctions have been removed, and the  market's already seen shipments from Iran to Europe. In Croft's  view, Iran is the only OPEC country that isn't concerned about a  low-price environment.   "The only country in OPEC that I think year on year is going to  have a better year is Iran," she noted. "Iran is set for 5 percent growth rates this year because of sanctions coming off;  they're basically the only ones who could be like 'We don't  really care about lower prices.'"   In the same vein, the EIA reported last week that U.S. crude  inventories for the week of Feb. 26 increased by 10.4 million  barrels. The agency added that "at  518.0 million barrels, U.S. crude oil inventories are at  historically high levels for this time of year."   In addition, Croft told CNBC that her firm expects  U.S. production to decrease 600,000 barrels year over year.   "The only place that can grow is probably going to be Iran," she  said. "That gives us the comfort that we should be reaching $50  by the end of the year."