Leningrad II-1 begins power launch stage 
26022018

1654
NuclearRussian regulator Rostechnadzor gave the green light for Unit 1 of the Leningrad Phase II nuclear power plant to enter the power start-up phase. Power start-up requires bringing the unit to 50% of its electricity production capacity in preparation for commercial operation.On 6 February, the VVER-1200 reactor entered the physical start-up phase, being settled to the minimum controllable power level. This process was finished ten days later.
 
The assembly of the reactor vessel for the unit, which is located in Sosnovy Bor, in western Russia, was accomplished at the beginning of January.
 
Rosatom representatives iterated the possibility to include for the first time the turbogenerator when the reactor capacity reaches about 35% of its nominal level. 
 
Alexander Belyaev, chief engineer of Leningrad NPP said that the gradual power start-up phases are envisaged to ensure the stability and safety of equipment and technological systems.

He declared: "Only after that will the unit be synchronised with the national grid and start supplying the first kilowatt-hours to it."
 
Director of the Leningrad plant, Vladimir Pereguda, also revealed that obtaining Rostekhnadzor's approval represents that all the work necessary for physical start-up had been finished successfully, and that no modifications to functional documentation had been needed.
On 6 February, the VVER-1200 reactor entered the physical start-up phase, being settled to the minimum controllable power level. This process was finished ten days later. The assembly of the reactor vessel for the unit, which is located in Sosnovy Bor, in western Russia, was accomplished at the beginning of January. Rosatom representatives iterated the possibility to include for the first time the turbogenerator when the reactor capacity reaches about 35% of its nominal level.  Alexander Belyaev, chief engineer of Leningrad NPP said that the gradual power start-up phases are envisaged to ensure the stability and safety of equipment and technological systems.
He declared: "Only after that will the unit be synchronised with the national grid and start supplying the first kilowatt-hours to it." Director of the Leningrad plant, Vladimir Pereguda, also revealed that obtaining Rostekhnadzor's approval represents that all the work necessary for physical start-up had been finished successfully, and that no modifications to functional documentation had been needed.