More than 130 LNG bunkering operations registered in Spain this year 
16122019

0945
LNGA total of nine ferries and two cruise ships powered by liquified natural gas (LNG) will soon be operational in the country, two of the segments that heavily invested in the fuel.The year 2020 is getting closer and with it, the entry of the new sulfur limits of the International Maritime Organization (IMO). In the absence of only a few weeks, the maritime sector is still in the process of transforming, in order to comply with the new regulations.
 
Spain has already become a worldwide reference in the field of emission reduction. Since January, a total of 134 LNG bunkering operations have been carried out in the country, in which a total of 72,392 m3 have been supplied to ships.
 
The figure represents an increase of 1.638% over the previous year, as evidenced by the figures of Gasnam. In addition, a total of nine ferries and two cruise ships powered by LNG will soon be operational in the country.
 
In this line, it should be noted that there are 112 vessels are prepared for future adaptation to LNG. The growth of LNG will support the maintenance of air quality and will contribute to significantly reduce gas emissions.
Source: portseurope.com
The year 2020 is getting closer and with it, the entry of the new sulfur limits of the International Maritime Organization (IMO). In the absence of only a few weeks, the maritime sector is still in the process of transforming, in order to comply with the new regulations. Spain has already become a worldwide reference in the field of emission reduction. Since January, a total of 134 LNG bunkering operations have been carried out in the country, in which a total of 72,392 m3 have been supplied to ships. The figure represents an increase of 1.638% over the previous year, as evidenced by the figures of Gasnam. In addition, a total of nine ferries and two cruise ships powered by LNG will soon be operational in the country. In this line, it should be noted that there are 112 vessels are prepared for future adaptation to LNG. The growth of LNG will support the maintenance of air quality and will contribute to significantly reduce gas emissions.Source: portseurope.com