  Saudi Arabia's oil minister declared Tuesday that he was not  at war with shale oil drillers, but it's clear the U.S. industry  is still under siege.  At the annual IHS CERAWeek energy conference in Houston, the  global energy industry has been meeting against a backdrop of the  worst oil downturn in years.   Industry executives at the 35th annual  conference painted a picture of an industry cutting costs,  trimming capital expenditure, holding off on long-term projects, shutting down  less efficient operations and facing a tighter financing  environment.  "It's hard to predict where it's going to go. As companies we have  to plan for the worst case," said Ryan Lance, CEO  of ConocoPhillips.  Conoco recently slashed its dividend for  the first time in 25 years, the first big company to do so in an  industry where the payout is sacrosanct, and others are expected  to follow.   Mark Papa, partner with Riverstone Holdings and a pioneer of the  shale industry, predicted that the bloodshed would not stop any time soon, though  he does expect a new, reorganized industry at the end of the  crunch.   Both men doubted the likelihood that a proposed production  freeze led by Saudi Arabia and Russia would  help rebalance the market.  "In the next six to 12 months you're going to see a disintegration  of the industry…a lot of bankruptcies, bodies everywhere,"  said Papa. As chairman and chief executive of EOG Resources from 1999 to 2003, Papa helped create the unconventional  oil business in the U.S. "Never in our wildest did we think we'd  find enough oil or the industry would find enough oil that we  would upset the global demand balance," he said.But the  balance was upset with a new gusher of U.S. supply and , as Saudi  Arabian oil minister Ali al-Naimi explained during his  appearance at the conference, non OPEC producers refused to  cooperate to hold back production, so in November 2014 OPEC  adopted a new policy of letting the market set prices. Since that  time, the price has fallen even further, hurting high-cost  producers that OPEC targeted with its policy – shale among  them.   Naimi also told the conference that he was "not banking" on  production cuts. "There is less trust, why worry about cuts," he  said.   He said that hopes for a freeze had helped the market and that even a marginal cut would help prices more than no cut at all. But he  emphasized that producers would not agree to cut production, a  disappointment to an industry that was hopeful talks of a freeze  were early signs that a real reduction in output could be close  at hand.  "Not many countries are going to deliver, even if they say they  will cut production, they will not deliver. So there is no sense  in wasting our time seeking production cuts," Naimi said. Naimi declined to comment to  CNBC on whether he thought the freeze would continue to be  supportive of oil prices.Oil fell sharply after the Saudi oil boss's remarks, with West Texas  Intermediate settling down 4.5 percent at $31.87 per barrel.   Naimi said there would be a meeting on the freeze in March,  but cautioned that complete cooperation promised to be difficult. The oil  minister from Iran, which is adding barrels to the market,  called the freeze "a joke" shortly before Naimi spoke.      But Naimi did have some positive words for shale, saying that the shale sector could provide additional barrels to the world  market at a time of rising demand, and that he was pleased that the  U.S. dropped am export ban on oil, allowing for more  flexibility. But he also warned that high-cost producers would  have to find ways to lower their costs or liquidate.  Naimi said Saudi Arabia could coexist with $20 oil but did not  want to. Oil recently reached a low of about $26, a 70 percent  from its mid-2014 high.   Papa, meanwhile, said he expected the market to find balance in  six to 24 months, and shale would rise again after the industry  restructured.  "I can see a case where the largest oil producer in the world in  [2021/2022] is U.S. shale producers," said Papa. He said he could  imagine a scenario where the U.S. could be producing 13 to 14  million barrels a day. The U.S. currently produces about 9.1  million barrels a day, down from 9.6 million barrels in  April.   "The future could be a lot brighter than people think, if you  look out four or five years and assume that demand will grow by  one million barrels a year," he said.  Lance said the U.S. industry will come out of the crisis with a  stronger use of technology and cost efficiencies, in a world where  "margin is going to be king." — Follow CNBC International on Twitter and Facebook.