  It's a country of around 185 million people, a member  of OPEC and the biggest economy on its  continent. But Nigeria may have more than  it can handle with the "Niger Delta Avengers."  Nigeria has vowed to rein in the militants who are relentlessly  bombing the country's oil infrastructure and have slashed its  crude output. But experts say the government of President  Muhammadu Buhari lacks the military capacity and institutions to  tackle the threat — and military action could make things  much worse anyway. Little is certain  about the motives of the Niger Delta Avengers. But the group claims through its website and Twitter feed that it wants a  bigger share of the Niger Delta's resource wealth to go to the  region's people, and it wants some sort of environmental  remediation after decades of rampant oil and gas pollution.  What is certain is that the Avengers are effective. Nigeria's oil  production has fallen from 2.2 million barrels per day to roughly  1.6 million after a spate of attacks, which come as the country was already in crisis mode thanks to a rout in global oil prices.Nigeria has deployed more troops to the delta and begun talks  with state and local leaders to address their grievances. This  week, Nigerian Oil Minister Emmanuel Ibe Kachikwu called on the  Avengers to "sheath their weapons and embrace dialogue with the  government."  The Avengers responded in their Twitter feed: "We're not  negotiating with any committee. If Fed Govt is discussing with  any group they're doing that on their own."  The Nigerian military has slim hopes of finding and defeating the  militant group in the delta's swampy network of creeks, say  experts. The terrain confounded soldiers during a prior,  yearslong campaign against oil militants, who stopped bombing  oil installations only after the government began paying them as  part of a 2009 amnesty program.  "I think it would be very difficult to tackle this issue using  essentially police methods," said John Campbell, former U.S.  ambassador to Nigeria. "The delta doesn't lend itself to military  or police action, and in fact, it failed the last time there was  an insurrection there."  The military, which Buhari is trying to remake into a more  professional fighting force, also has little support among delta  residents, and its presence could make matters worse, according  to Campbell.  Abuse of civilians at the hands of the military in northern  Nigeria provided a potent recruitment tool for Boko Haram, Campbell said.  That group has gone on to become one of the world's most deadly  terrorist organizations. If similar abuses were repeated in the delta, more militants would likely emerge, he said.   This week, the federal government said it would withdraw troops  from villages after complaints of heavy-handed tactics.  Meanwhile, the Avengers have at least tacit support from some  locals in the delta. Members are viewed as part bandit and part  Al Capone, but they are also seen as part Robin Hood, said Gerald  McLoughlin, an independent analyst and former U.S. foreign  service officer with experience in Nigeria. That sympathy,  coupled with a lack of economic opportunity in the delta, make  the group extremely difficult to combat.  "Quite frankly, it's almost impossible. It's not like an  insurgency in the classic sense," he told CNBC.   "If they find these guys and hunt them down and shoot them, there  will be another group the next day. What else can you do if you  live there?" he said.  The Buhari government could conceivably build goodwill by  embarking on public works projects, said Ambassador Cambell.  Construction of a long-discussed road across the delta region,  for example, would employ a huge number of workers and open new  areas to economic development, provided it functioned well.  The delta ostensibly has institutions in place to execute such projects,  but they have accomplished little, said Manji Cheto, senior vice  president at advisory firm Teneo Intelligence. The Niger Delta  Development Commission was founded in 2000, followed by the Niger  Delta Ministry in 2008. There is also an office dedicated to  carrying out the 2009 amnesty program.  The organizations carry out programs, but have no cohesive  blueprint for development, and much of their funding falls into a  "black hole," Cheto said. The government should merge the three  organizations, she said. "Quite clearly they didn't see this as a  priority. Now, with pipelines being attacked every week, it has  to become a priority," she said.Analysts don't doubt that Buhari is committed to the anti-corruption  crusade he campaigned on, but they say his hands are tied  by corruption at the state and local level, where oil revenue that's distributed by the federal government is  frequently misallocated.  "What happens in many cases is the funds arrive on the state  governor's desk and there's no further accounting for them,"  Ambassador Campbell said. "The state legislatures are supposed to  hold the governors accountable, but very often, the legislatures  are part of the (patronage) network controlled by  governors."  That system makes delta people skeptical that talks between  federal and local leaders will produce change, Cheto said.Beyond the impact on the Nigerian economy, the Avengers could agitate separatist sentiment in the delta — a potentially disastrous development in a country like Nigeria with divided regional, tribal and religious loyalties.  Cheto said she's concerned about increased activity among independence groups in the  south's Biafra region. The delta state fought a devastating civil war with Nigeria from  1967 to 1970. At the peak of that conflict, Nigeria's total blockade of  Biafra led to thousands of deaths by starvation on a daily basis.   Among its list of demands, the Avengers have called for the  release of Nnamdi Kanu, director of Radio Biafra and a  separatist leader who has been in government custody since  October. Separatist groups have also voiced support for the  Avengers, local media reported.  Cheto believes the Biafra groups are looking to the 2019 election  to gain influence, though she said the rise of the Avengers provides another outlet through which they could  potentially advance their aims.  "I think it's just simmering under the surface. I don't want to  sound alarmist, but for the government to ignore it would be a  misstep," she said.  In McLoughlin's view, there's still much animosity between delta  residents and Biafra activists that's left over from the civil  war. Still, he said he sees growing regionalism in the delta that  could make it difficult for the federal government to rally  support against the Avengers and other threats.  "What Nigeria is doing inadvertently is creating the conditions  for a real insurgency, a political insurgency," he said.   "Nigeria has an incipient Nigerian-ness, kind of a sense that  we're Nigerian, but they're really working against it here  inadvertently in the delta, where they're creating a sense that  we're not Nigerians, we're the delta people."