  Nigeria's new president was sworn in on Friday in the country's  first ever democratic handover of power. He faces a tough battle  to diversify an economy reliant on oil and hampered by terrorism  and endemic corruption.   Retired major-general Muhammadu Buhari won the 2015 election as a  self-described "converted democrat," taking over from incumbent  Goodluck Jonathan. However, it's not the first time he has led  the country—he ruled as dictator between 1983 and 1985,  after taking power in a coup.  "The common themes raised by all we met focused on the need for  good governance, security and an end to systemic corruption,"  said Kato Mukuru, global head of research at Exotix Partners, in  a research note published after the election results.  "President-elect Buhari and Vice President-elect Osinbajo are  universally accepted as being the right team to deliver on this,  but after being disappointed on many occasions by their leaders,  many people were hopeful, rather than expectant."   Buhari's military credentials have increased expectations that he  will do better in tackling Boko Haram than his predecessor. The  militants have wreaked havoc in the north-east of the country in  a six-year killing and kidnapping spree aimed at establishing an  Islamic caliphate.    The chaos has deterred some investors from Africa's biggest oil  producer, although Nigeria's commercial hub of Lagos is located  far away from Boko Haram territory.   The country as a whole is rated at "severe" risk of terrorism and  political violence—on a par with Syria, Iraq, Yemen and  Afghanistan—by global risk consultancy Aon. Read MoreEurope, Canada face  rising terror threat  Two Nigerian cities—Jos and Abuja, the capital city—are  at "extreme" risk of terrorism, with the latter suffering four  attacks and 177 deaths in the year to February, according to  political risk consultancy Verisk Maplecroft. It said that the  risk of terrorist attacks rose in 13 Nigerian cities during the  time period.   "While Boko Haram will remain the dominant terrorist threat in  Nigeria, Verisk Maplecroft believes there is a possibility of  hostilities resuming in the Niger Delta following the election of  Mohammed Buhari," the consultancy said in a statement this  month.   "The amnesty protecting members of the militant group MEND is due  to lapse and without successful negotiations this could mean  disruption to the country's vital oil industry, in addition to  attacks on key cities in the south east of the country."  Nigeria's economy grew at 4 percent year-on-year in the first  three months of 2015, which was its slowest rate of expansion  since early 2012, according to Capital Economics. The independent  research firm attributed this in part to country's reliance on  energy production: Oil and gas accounts for 35 percent of its  economy, according to the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting  Countries (OPEC), of which Nigeria  is the most populous member.   Buhari "will struggle to diversify the economy (away from  energy)," Capital Economics warned in a report on frontier  markets last week.   In March, Standard & Poor's lowered its credit rating on  Nigeria from BB-minus to B-plus, because of the impact of  oil prices. Read MoreWillKurdistan sell oil if Baghdad doesn't pay?  On the upside, weak prices could provide the impetus for  much-needed reforms and balancing of the books.   "We believe the low oil price combined with a change in the  government provides the best opportunity in years to push forward  reforms in Africa's largest economy," said economists at  Renaissance Capital in a report this month. The frontier market  specialist company said that investors should no longer be  underweight on Nigeria. Buhari's previous time in charge as dictator has raised human  rights concerns but he does have a reputation for  incorruptibility, a factor that helped him to power.   Although he is yet to appoint his cabinet, the president is  expected take a lead in tackling corruption within the oil and  gas sector, with Vice President Yemi Osinbajo heading up the  fight in all other industries.   "An improvement in corruption should improve Nigeria's fiscal  situation and improve equity investors' perception of the  country," said Renaissance Capital in a report last week.   The emerging market investment bank said that Nigeria's  corruption problem was in line with expectations, when compared  to other countries with low gross domestic product (GDP) per  capita that are oil exporters.   "Improving Nigerian corruption would be far easier to achieve if  Nigeria ran out of oil," Renaissance Capital said.  It was upbeat on the country's long-term economic forecast.   "We think Nigeria will be a trillion dollar economy by 2025 (the  U.S. Department of Agriculture thinks 2030) and it will keep  doubling every 10 years pushing per capita GDP to around $15,000  in 2050."