  Global crude prices fell again on Thursday, a day after a  short-covering rally, as traders placed new bets that the market  would resume a six-month rout on worries about a supply glut.  In early trade, oil extended gains from the previous session,  when short-covering lifted prices more than $3 a barrel.  But in late morning trade in New York, benchmark  and U.S. crude tumbled to fresh session lows, with Brent off by about $2 to near $59 a  barrel. U.S. crude for January settlement ended the session down by more than $2 per barrel, at $54.11.Read More  "We're continuing to search for a bottom, and might even see  another significant drop before the year-end," said Gene  McGillian, an analyst at Tradition Energy in Stamford,  Connecticut.  Traders also cited a Bloomberg report that a Nigerian port  workers union had suspended a strike. Reuters has not verified  the report, and oil shipments did not appear to be affected. The  dock workers union is only involved in container shipping in  Lagos, not oil ports.  Separately, the OPEC country's  two major oil worker unions will meet with the government on  Thursday to discuss an end to a strike that began on Monday. So  far the strike has not affected oil exports, they have  said. Read MoreOil could fall to $30 a barrel:  Emirates boss"It looks like investors favor support around $60 a barrel," said  Daniel Ang, an investment analyst at Phillip Futures in  Singapore, adding that lower investment in production could be  felt in the market as early as the second quarter of 2015.Read More  Forget oil, Russia—Fed is 'big elephant': Paulsen Chevron Corp has put a plan to  drill for oil in the Beaufort Sea in Canada's Arctic on  indefinite hold, while Marathon  Oil cut its capital expenditure for next year by about  20 percent.      Canadian oil producers also deepened cuts in 2015 spending,  as Husky  Energy, MEG  Energy and Penn West  Petroleum joined those hacking back capital budgets in  response to tumbling crude prices.  