Northern Cyprus to launch natural gas exploration 
10102018

0942
Natural GasThe Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus (TRNC) and Turkish Petroleum will launch their natural gas exploration program on the island's southwest, the country's deputy prime minister said Tuesday.Speaking to Anadolu Agency, Kudret Ozersay, who is also foreign minister, said the Greek Cypriot administration's opening of tenders for foreign energy companies for natural gas exploration in the seventh block located in the so-called exclusive economic zone is "unlawful," as it is an attempt to rob the rights of Turkish Cypriots.
 
There are 12 blocks for natural gas drills around south of the island. The relatively small Aphrodite gas field is estimated to hold 127 bcm in capacity.
 
The block 7 is one of the blocks located in the unilaterally declared exclusive economic zone and Greek Cypriot Administration wants to invite foreign energy firms for natural gas exploration.
 
Cyprus has been divided since 1974, when a Greek Cypriot coup was followed by violence against the island's Turks and Ankara's intervention as a guarantor power. It has seen an on-and-off peace process in recent years, including the latest initiative in Switzerland under the auspices of guarantor countries Turkey, Greece and the U.K. collapsing in 2017.
Source: aa.com.tr
Speaking to Anadolu Agency, Kudret Ozersay, who is also foreign minister, said the Greek Cypriot administration's opening of tenders for foreign energy companies for natural gas exploration in the seventh block located in the so-called exclusive economic zone is "unlawful," as it is an attempt to rob the rights of Turkish Cypriots. There are 12 blocks for natural gas drills around south of the island. The relatively small Aphrodite gas field is estimated to hold 127 bcm in capacity. The block 7 is one of the blocks located in the unilaterally declared exclusive economic zone and Greek Cypriot Administration wants to invite foreign energy firms for natural gas exploration. Cyprus has been divided since 1974, when a Greek Cypriot coup was followed by violence against the island's Turks and Ankara's intervention as a guarantor power. It has seen an on-and-off peace process in recent years, including the latest initiative in Switzerland under the auspices of guarantor countries Turkey, Greece and the U.K. collapsing in 2017.Source: aa.com.tr