Norway Statoil and partners intend to expand production capacity at Troll gas field 
27092017

1418
BiofuelsNorway's Statoil and partners are trying to raise the production capacity of Troll, the country's biggest gas field, a move considered by traders as a possibility to enable the firms to create more flexibility and cover production shortages at other fields because of outages.The Troll field has around 40 percent of Norway's gas resources and is a vital energy source for many European nations.
 
A front-end engineering and design (FEED) contract has been awarded by Statoil to the engineering company Aker Solutions so that oil and gas can be produced simultaneously from the Troll West reservoir.
 
The North Sea field has two reservoirs: Troll West holds both oil and gas, while Troll East possesses only gas.
 
Statoil's representative Morten Eek declared that starting as soon as possible, the FEED work will be accomplished at Aker Solutions, and if the decision to extend the contract is exercised, the work will last until 2020. He did not want to reveal the amount of the extra capacity.

Norwegian authorities permitted Statoil to boost production to a peak of 36 billion cubic metres, and consequently Troll might hit record output this year.
The Troll field has around 40 percent of Norway's gas resources and is a vital energy source for many European nations. A front-end engineering and design (FEED) contract has been awarded by Statoil to the engineering company Aker Solutions so that oil and gas can be produced simultaneously from the Troll West reservoir. The North Sea field has two reservoirs: Troll West holds both oil and gas, while Troll East possesses only gas. Statoil's representative Morten Eek declared that starting as soon as possible, the FEED work will be accomplished at Aker Solutions, and if the decision to extend the contract is exercised, the work will last until 2020. He did not want to reveal the amount of the extra capacity.
Norwegian authorities permitted Statoil to boost production to a peak of 36 billion cubic metres, and consequently Troll might hit record output this year.