Novatek Announces Major Offshore Gas Find in Russian Arctic 
11102018

0858
LNGRussian gas and LNG firm Novatek announced Wednesday that it has found a major new gas field in the Gulf of Ob, just off the Yamal Peninsula in the Russian Arctic.The new North-Obskoye field has estimated reserves of more than 320 billion cubic meters (bcm) of natural gas, and its total resources are estimated at more than 900 bcm. These reserves estimates will be submitted to the Russian State Reserves commission for confirmation in November 2018.
 
If the results are proven, the field will provide a major boost for Novatek's proposed Arctic LNG 2 export plant, which will be located just across the Gulf of Ob from the existing Yamal LNG site. French oil major Total has agreed to take a 10 percent interest in the new project, paralleling its early investment in Yamal.
 
The current plan for Arctic LNG 2 calls for three "gravity-based structures" to be deployed in the Gulf of Ob, each of which will support one 6.6 mpta gas liquefaction train. If the plan receives a positive final investment decision and proceeds on schedule, it would begin production in late 2023. It will draw on the two trillion cubic meters of gas reserves available from the onshore Utrenneye gas field, but the North-Obskoye find greatly increases the site's potential.
Source: maritime-executive.com
The new North-Obskoye field has estimated reserves of more than 320 billion cubic meters (bcm) of natural gas, and its total resources are estimated at more than 900 bcm. These reserves estimates will be submitted to the Russian State Reserves commission for confirmation in November 2018. If the results are proven, the field will provide a major boost for Novatek's proposed Arctic LNG 2 export plant, which will be located just across the Gulf of Ob from the existing Yamal LNG site. French oil major Total has agreed to take a 10 percent interest in the new project, paralleling its early investment in Yamal. The current plan for Arctic LNG 2 calls for three "gravity-based structures" to be deployed in the Gulf of Ob, each of which will support one 6.6 mpta gas liquefaction train. If the plan receives a positive final investment decision and proceeds on schedule, it would begin production in late 2023. It will draw on the two trillion cubic meters of gas reserves available from the onshore Utrenneye gas field, but the North-Obskoye find greatly increases the site's potential.Source: maritime-executive.com