As OPEC and non-OPEC nations agreed to jointly cut oil production  in a landmark global pact on Saturday, Nigeria's oil  minister told CNBC he believed there is more than enough  incentive for all involved to adhere to the deal.  Eleven oil producing countries, that are not members of OPEC,  said on Saturday they are to cut production by 558,000 barrels  per day (b/d), just short of the 600,000 targeted by OPEC in  November.  "I think (this deal) is different… this time there is a  major consensus. Everybody is hurting, everybody realizes you  need to do this," Emmanuel Ibe Kachikwu, Nigeria's oil minister,  told CNBC on Monday.  "Both the OPEC and non-OPEC groups understand that both sides  would have to keep to the deal otherwise it falters so I think  the urgency of now and the criticality of the economy they have  to protect is enough incentive for everybody to align this time,"  he added.  Russia pledged to cut its oil production by 300,000 b/d with the  remaining 10 non-OPEC countries combining to cut a further  258,000 b/d in an agreement that represents the largest ever  non-OPEC production cut.  OPEC announced last month at its headquarters in Vienna, Austria  that it would reduce oil production by 1.2 million b/d in order  to prop up oil prices and combat global oversupply.  Investor sentiment has been buoyed by the pact with non-OPEC  nations, the first time oil producing members have agreed with  non-members for 15 years. Brent crude traded at around $56.59 a barrel on  Monday morning, up 4.12 percent,  while U.S.  WTI was around $53.75 a barrel, up 4.37 percent.  Kachikwu targeted an oil price of around $60 a barrel moving  forwards but stressed OPEC could be poised to take further action  to rebalance the market next summer.  "I think this is just the beginning of the momentum itself, (the  deal agreed) in Vienna wasn't just a one off.  "In six months' time when (this OPEC deal) will be due for  another review, if we feel that the market hasn't balanced  enough, more cuts might be coming," he concluded.