  Oil prices pared losses in post-settlement trade after data  showed a smaller-than-expected rise in crude stocks. Refineries cut output, while gasoline and distillate inventories  decreased, data from industry group the American Petroleum  Institute showed on Tuesday.  Crude inventories rose by 1.5 million barrels in the week to  March 11 to 523 million, compared with analysts' expectations for  an increase of 3.4 million barrels. Crude stocks at the Cushing,  Oklahoma, delivery hub rose by 471,000 barrels, API said.  Gasoline stocks fell by 1.2 million barrels, compared with  analysts' expectations in a Reuters poll for a 2.3 million-barrel  decline.  U.S. oil had fallen in the pre-settlement session Tuesday,  extending losses for a second straight day, as market  participants cited technical resistance after prices ran above  $40 a barrel and worry that U.S. crude stockpiles had continued  to rise despite falling production.  Uncertainty over how the Federal Reserve will word its policy  statement on Wednesday also fed jitters in financial markets  despite expectations the U.S. central bank will signal a slower  pace of interest rate hikes.  Crude had rallied about 50 percent over the past six weeks as  talk that major oil producers planned to freeze output at January  levels boosted a market that sank to 12-year lows on a supply  glut.  But after soaring to three-month highs of more than $41 a barrel  on Brent and above $39 on U.S. crude last week, the rally had hit  technical fatigue, analysts said.  U.S. government data on Wednesday was expected to show crude  inventories at record highs for a fifth week in a row even with  shale oil production down.A production freeze plan by OPEC and Russia has made little  progress, with No. 4 oil producer Iran still determined to double  or restore its crude exports to pre-sanction levels before  limiting any output.  "The rally is now retreating on fears that OPEC will continue to  flood the market with oil in a world where demand may falter,"  said Phil Flynn, analyst at the Price Futures Group in Chicago. Brent was down 58 cents, or 1.47 percent, at $38.95 a barrel in evening trading. U.S. crude settled at $36.34 a  barrel, down 84 cents, or 2.26 percent, after hitting a March 4  low. It last traded up 1.43 percent at $36.86.   U.S. gasoline futures, also known as RBOB, fell for a second straight day  too, sliding 1.13 percent.  "The rot is setting in," technical analysts at PVM Associates in  London said in a commentary, citing potential threat to support  for Brent at $38.34 and for U.S. crude at $36.04. They also noted  RBOB's failure to hold above the eight-day moving average of  $1.41.  But some said the market appeared to be pacing the slide and it  was too early to call the rally over.  "While the advance in crude oil prices has paused, I think the  bears might have been hoping for a larger reaction to the  downside," said David Thompson at Washington-based commodities  brokerage Powerhouse.  "If prices were to break below $35, then my view would turn more  bearish."