  Oil prices were down as much as 3.8 percent on Monday as supply overhang  concerns grew after a Saudi-Venezuela meeting at the weekend  showed few signs of coordination to boost prices.  No tangible signs emerged from a meeting on Sunday between Saudi  Arabia's oil minister Ali al-Naimi and his Venezuelan counterpart  that OPEC and non-OPEC suppliers were ready to meet to discuss  the price slump.  After a flurry of diplomacy over the last two weeks about a  possible production cut roiled oil markets, Sunday's meeting  between cash-strapped Venezuela and the kingpin of the  Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries was seen as  "make or break" for a possible deal to boost prices that have  slumped 70 percent since mid-2014.  Venezuela's oil minister Eulogio Del Pino, who was on a tour of  oil producers to lobby for action to prop up prices, said his  meeting with Naimi was "productive."  "But does 'productive' mean less production? The market thinks  not, at least right now," said Phil Flynn, an analyst at Price  Futures Group in Chicago.  France's Total has, meanwhile, agreed to buy 160,000 barrels per  day (bpd) of Iranian crude for delivery in Europe, official news  agency SHANA quoted Iranian Oil Minister Bijan Zanganeh as  saying, showing Tehran's determination to claw back lost market  share after the lifting of nuclear sanctions against the OPEC  producer.  Global benchmark Brent futures were down 99 cents, or 2.85 percent, at  $33.09 at 4:30 p.m. U.S. crude futures settled down $1.20, or 3.88 percent,  at $29.69 a barrel. They were last trading down 74 cents, or 2.3 percent at $30.18.  "With the possibility of a production cutting deal quickly fading  into the sunset, market participants are once again left to focus  on the reality of the oversupplied global market," Energy  Management Institute analyst Dominick Chirichella wrote in a  note.  Morgan Stanley warned on Monday that a global supply overhang was  unlikely to start clearing before 2017.  "We see limited upside for Brent (and range-bound) pricing over  the next 12 months as the supply overhang is worked off," the  bank said.  However, investors in Brent crude now hold more futures and  options contracts that bet on the price rising than at any time  since the InterContinental Exchange's records began in 2011, data  from the exchange showed on Monday.  Money managers raised their net long position in Brent crude  futures and options by 31,346 contracts to 292,300 lots in the  week to Feb. 2.Weekly U.S. crude and gasoline inventories hit record highs, data  from the Energy Information Administration (EIA) showed last  week. The latest weekly stock data is expected to be released on  Wednesday.  The market is eyeing U.S. Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen's  testimony to lawmakers on Wednesday along with U.S. crude  inventory data from the EIA on the same day.  The International Energy Agency and OPEC are also due to release  their monthly reports on Tuesday and Wednesday, respectively.