  Oil prices were little changed on Thursday as uncertainty ahead  of a planned OPEC-led crude production cut and thin liquidity  during the U.S. Thanksgiving holiday kept traders from making big  new bets.  At 1040 GMT, Brent crude oil futures were trading at  $48.89, down 6 cents from their close. U.S. West Texas  Intermediate (WTI) crude was down 2  cents at $47.94 per barrel.  Traders said market activity was low due to the U.S. holiday, and  there was a reluctance to take on big price bets due to  uncertainty about a planned oil production cut, led by  the Organization of the  Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC).  OPEC is due to meet on Nov. 30 to coordinate a cut, potentially  together with non-OPEC member Russia.  Russia could revise down its 2017 oil production plans if a  global output freeze pact comes into force, effectively cutting  output by 200,000-300,000 barrels per day, Energy Minister  Alexander Novak said on Thursday.  OPEC will probably propose other producers cut their oil  production by 880,000 barrels per day for six months starting  from Jan. 1 2017, Azerbaijan Energy Minister Natig Aliyev wrote  in a local newspaper on Thursday.  But an OPEC source told Reuters that OPEC was yet to make a final  proposal to non-OPEC countries on joint production cuts, which  will be discussed on Nov. 28 in Vienna.  Venezuela's President Nicolas Maduro said on Wednesday an OPEC  deal to cut output and hike oil prices was "imminent," and  dispatched his oil minister to Russia to help bring other  producers on board.  Most analysts believe some form of production cut will be agreed,  but it is uncertain whether it will be enough to prop up a market  that has been dogged by a supply overhang for over two years,  according to the International Energy Agency (IEA).  "We expect OPEC will reach an agreement at next week's biannual  meeting in Vienna... If OPEC does successfully reach an  agreement, prices are likely to test the year high in Brent of  $53 per barrel," ANZ bank said in a note to clients on  Thursday.  IEA Director Fatih Birol told Reuters in Tokyo on Thursday that  even if production is cut, prices could soon come back under  downward pressure again as the OPEC-led cut would enable U.S.  shale oil drillers to massively increase their own output.