  Crude prices rose on Tuesday after the International Energy  Agency noted a sharp drop in oil investment. But the broader  picture of an oversupplied market limited any gains as traders  focused on inventory data due later in the day. Brent crude, the  global benchmark, was up 35 cents at $47.43 a barrel by 2:32 p.m. EDT, after falling for four trading days in a  row. U.S.  crude settled up 34 cent, or 0.78 percent, at $44.21 a barrel, snapping a four-day losing streak.  Prices rallied to session highs in mid-morning U.S. trade, which  one trader attributed to the U.S. National Hurricane Center's  forecast that tropical storm Kate will become a hurricane by  tonight. It said the storm is expected to pass north of Bermuda  and remain well offshore the U.S. East Coast.  Other market players said the move was driven by technical  trading in U.S. crude. Read MoreOil price to recover to  $80 only by 2020: IEA  In its World Energy Outlook, the IEA also estimated that  investment in oil would decline more than 20 percent this year  and the trend would continue into 2016.  Oil majors have canceled 80 projects across the world this year  because of low oil prices and cut capital spending by as much as  $22 billion, BP's head of exploration and production Lamar Mckay  said.  It added oil was unlikely to return to $80 a barrel before the  end of the decade, despite the cuts in investment, as annual  demand growth struggles to top 1 million barrels per day.  Teddy Sloup, senior market analyst at iitrader.com LLC in  Chicago, said traders on Tuesday had been targeting a technical  level $43.50 a barrel and when U.S. crude failed to break lower  the market bounced, although it would likely struggle to hold  gains.  "If the stock market is able to sell off from now until the end  of the week you have to believe crude is going after the early  October low (of $42.58)," Sloup said. "Supply is not going  anywhere, there's tons out there and the market feels heavy." Read More Kilduff:  IEA energy report raises geopolitical concern  The American Petroleum Institute will release its crude inventory  data later on Tuesday at 4:30 p.m. ET (2130 GMT) and any build  could push prices lower. U.S. crude inventories are forecast to  build for a seventh straight week.  The official U.S. Energy Information Administration inventory  data will be delayed until Thursday because of the U.S. Veterans  Day holiday on Wednesday.  "It has been the weekly (U.S.) inventory report that has been  driving the market for the past three weeks," said Ole Hansen,  Saxo Bank head of commodities research.  Oil majors expect that the global oil glut is likely to take  longer than expected to clear and may depress crude prices for  many more months if not years despite steep investment cuts and  project cancellations around the world. Read MoreChina's voracious oil  appetite to help balance OPEC output  Still, comments from OPEC Secretary-General Abdullah al-Badri on  the outlook for oil did provide a little bullish relief for the  market.  "We are following the market day in and day out, month in and  month out we see that 2016 is really producing some positive  results," Badri said in Abu Dhabi.OPEC holds its next policy-setting meeting on Dec.  4 and is widely expected to continue with its no-cut policy  initiated in November last year.