  U.S. crude closed roughly flat on Wednesday, giving up gains after the government reported  another weekly build in crude inventories and a survey suggested OPEC output rose this month. Brent  futures were up 12 cents to $39.26 a barrel, after hitting a session peak of $40.61.  U.S.  crude settled at $38.32 a barrel, up 4 cents, or 0.1 percent, having  earlier traded as high as $39.85.  U.S. crude inventories rose 2.3 million barrels in the last week,  the U.S. Energy Information Administration reported. That was  less than the 3.3 million-barrel build analysts had  expected. Still, oil bulls were disappointed because the build came  even as refinery utilization rates rose 2 percentage points to  90.4 percent of total capacity, the highest rate seasonally since  2005.  "The data poses a bit of a conundrum, in that crude stocks still  increased so much despite strong refining runs and an apparent  drop in imports," said Matt Smith, director of commodity research  at New York-headquarter energy data provider ClipperData.  Dominick Chirichella, senior partner, Energy Management  Institute, New York, concurred. "Overall, I would categorize the  report as more neutral than anything else."  Oil rose early, following share prices on Wall Street which hit  3-month highs. Oil also got a boost from a weak dollar, which fell to a near two-week  low, making oil and other commodities denominated in the  greenback more attractive to users of the euro and other  currencies.  Both Brent and U.S. crude fell about 3 percent on Tuesday on  concerns about swelling global oil supplies, including new output  from Kuwait and Saudi Arabia.  OPEC oil output is rising in March, a Reuters survey found, as  higher supply from Iran after the lifting of sanctions and  near-record exports from southern Iraq offset maintenance and  outages in smaller producers.  However, the Reuters survey also found no major change in  production in top exporter Saudi Arabia — another sign that  Riyadh is serious about freezing output to support prices.  Oil prices have risen about 50 percent over the past two months  after major producers within and outside the Organization of the  Petroleum Exporting Countries floated the idea of freezing  production at January's highs.  On Tuesday, Saudi Arabia and Kuwait, two of OPEC's biggest  exporters, said they would resume production at the jointly  operated 300,000-barrels-per-day Khafji field even with a meeting  on the production freeze set for April 17.  "The fact that the announcement comes so shortly before the  meeting in Doha is a disastrous sign," said Commerzbank oil  analyst Carsten Fritsch. "After all, it gives the impression that  the lip service paid to freezing oil production is nothing but  hot air."  The International Energy Agency, which oversees energy policies  of industrialized nations, forecasts global stock builds to  continue this year. But it said on Wednesday Iran was not adding  as many barrels into the market as expected despite the easing of  international sanctions against Tehran in January.  "It was misleading to believe that there would be a huge amount  of new Iranian crude and natural gas production entering the  market in the short term," Fatih Birol, the IEA's executive  director, told Reuters.  OPEC member Iran is expected to attend an oil producers meeting  in Doha, although it may not take part in the talks.  The freeze idea emerged after prices fell below $30 a barrel in  January from as high as $115 in June 2014 on global oversupply  spurred by U.S. production growth and rising output from oil  exporter group OPEC.