  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) decided  on Thursday not to cut oil production, despite sliding oil  prices.   Brent crude oil fell more than $3 to under $75 a barrel—a fresh  four-year low—on the news while West Texas Intermediate (WTI)—dropped  below $70. Global oil prices have plunged since peaking in June,  and Brent crude has lost around a third of its price from $115 a  barrel.  Following a meeting of OPEC in Vienna, the oil minister of  leading member Saudi Arabia, Ali Al-Naimi, was asked whether the  group had decided not to reduce its output from 30 million  barrels per day. He responded: "That is right".  Speaking to CNBC, Nigeria's Petroleum  Minister and newly elected OPEC president, Diezani  Alison-Madueke, said that non-OPEC oil producers had to "share  the burden" of any future cut in production.   "Of course we are hoping over the next year we will see more  stability," she added.   Read MoreSaudis to push OPEC to cut output: CNBC  survey  OPEC issued a statement after the highly-anticipated, five-hour  meeting claiming that the ministers "in the interest of  restoring market equilibrium" had decided to maintain its current  production levels.  "As always, in taking this decision, member countries  confirmed their readiness to respond to developments which could  have an adverse impact on the maintenance of an orderly and  balanced oil market," the statement said.  "The OPEC decision was certainly disappointing but not  surprising,"  Naeem Aslam, chief market analyst at Avatrade  wrote in a note shortly after the news broke. "The fact is  that even if they had a cut in the production today,  there  are still questions in the long term over the stability of the  price." Read MoreGulf OPEC producers agree not to cut  output: Rpt    Weak demand, a strong dollar and booming U.S. oil  production are the three main reasons behind the fall in the  price of oil, according to the International Energy Agency (IEA),  which has warned of a "new chapter" for oil markets, which could  even affect the social stability of some countries.  The drop in oil has weighed heavily on energy stocks but has  boosted some companies that are heavily reliant on the commodity,  like airlines. Read MoreOPEC needs to 'wake up' to shale  revolution  Neil Atkinson, the head of analysis at Lloyd's List Intelligence,  told CNBC that oil will slide further in the coming weeks but  without any "massive downside."   He added that Saudi Arabia was right to be patient in making a  decision and will use the next three months to put further  pressure on non-OPEC producers—like Russia—to come to  an agreement on production.  One of the main pressure points on the price of oil—and on  OPEC to cut its production—has been the success of the U.S.  oil shale industry.   The ball to help monitor and regulate supply is now firmly in the  U.S.'s court, analysts from Barclays Instant Insights said in a  commodities research note. "In keeping the production target at 30  mb/d, OPEC is clearly signaling that it will no longer bear the  burden of market adjustment alone and this decision puts the onus  on other producers, especially US tight oil to adjust as  well," the note said.   Robbie Diamond, President and CEO of Securing America's Future  Energy (SAFE), a lobby group that works to improve U.S. energy  security, commented on the OPEC decision in a statement.   "Whatever OPEC's decision on oil production levels, its attempt  to control this commodity—the lifeblood of the global  economy—exemplifies the importance of reducing oil's  monopoly over U.S. transportation by pursuing policies and  technologies that can free us from this cartel's influence," he  said.  In the nearer term, oil could sell-off, said Petroleum Policy  Intelligency CEO Bill Farren-Price.  "This is a very strong supply situation that they (OPEC) are not  prepared to respond to at present," he told CNBC on  Thursday.   "You are going to see excessive stock builds and a lot of oil on  the water and this is going to lead to a serious market  reaction."