  The OPEC meeting confirmed that the era of cheap oil has  not come to an end.  Chart analysis of the Nymex oil chart in March suggested the rise  in the oil price from $28 was a rally and not a trend change. The  strong rally gain was a gift to traders but it was not enough to  revitalize the oil industry because the rally faced   significant resistance barriers.  However, oil is establishing a pattern of longer-term trend  reversal with price oscillation around the $38 level. Price  activity at this level will be the most significant factor in oil  behavior in the next few weeks. If the price remains near to the  $38 level, the longer-term outlook for oil is bullish.  If price falls below $38, the next support level is near  $28.However, two barrier features on the chart that act to prevent  any future rebound rally at $38 from developing into a trend  change.   The first resistance level is a historical one near $48. This  resistance feature is strengthened by the proximity to the upper  edge of the long-term GMMA, which is also near $48.   The separation in the long-term GMMA is also very wide and  consistent, with little indication of compression. A change in  trend direction is confirmed when the long-term GMMA group of  averages first develop compression, then later turn upwards.  Instead, wide separation in the long-term GMMA confirms that  investors are not confident the oil price can recover quickly.  This is why the current rally collapse is not a surprise. The  width of the long-term GMMA confirms that investors will sell  into any future rally, driving oil prices down towards the  historical support level near $38.  The second resistance feature is the historical  support-and-resistance level near $58 - the most significant  resistance level for any trend change. A successful breakout  above $48 could move quickly to the resistance level near $58.  When the oil price fell, the downside targets were calculated by  taking the width of the trading band and projecting it downwards  below each new support level. The trading bands for oil are  around $10 wide, which is particularly useful for describing the  price fall between $108 and $38.  The same method is used to calculate the upside targets for any  new uptrend in oil. However, the strength of the resistance  features suggest that any future rebound from support near $38  will be a rally and not a trend change.  We continue to use the ANTSYSS trade method to extract good  returns from these price movements. Daryl Guppy is a trader and author of "The 36 Strategies of  the Chinese for Financial Traders," available from  www.guppytraders.com. He is a regular guest on CNBC's "Street  Signs" and speaker at trading conferences in Asia Pacific and  Europe.