The oil industry is still "a disaster," with an oversupply issue  that doesn't appear to be balancing out anytime soon, John Kidluff, partner at Again Capital, said Tuesday.   Kilduff, who has been bearish on crude, pointed out that refiners  are soon going to go into their seasonal maintenance.   "The little bit of oil that got taken out of storage for the past  12 weeks or so, in terms of inventory reports, is going to come  right back on," he said in an interview with CNBC's "Power  Lunch."  Plus, Libyan oil will be coming back online and Chinese demand is  expected to fall off, Kidluff said.  "This is a glut without end in sight."  U.S. crude settled down 21 cents Tuesday to $42.92 a barrel.  was up 1 cent to $44.73 per barrel in late trading.   Record crude output from OPEC, a glut of refined products and signs of more  drilling activity in the United States in the face of low oil  prices have contributed to concern about excess supply.  U.S. drillers added oil rigs for a fourth consecutive week, data  from oilfield services firm Baker Hughes showed Friday. The  decline in U.S. output has been key to balancing a market weighed  by excess supply for two years.  Kilduff predicts oil will fall to $35 per barrel. However, he's  hoping to get more constructive on the industry next year.  Kent Moors, executive chairman of Energy Capital Research Group,  is more optimistic. He believes the balance is coming; it's just  been far more sluggish than many expected.   Right now, the market is being driven by the presumption of  traders on what's to come rather than the oil that's on the  market, he told "Power Lunch."He thinks it's important to note that even though there has been  an increase in drilling, once new wells come online, most will  recover volume lost from capped wells. "This is not all automatically additional oil coming onto the  market."  Plus, production levels in the United States are going to begin  to decline again because the "oil debt crisis is about to  explode."  "We have a number of companies that are drilling and producing  like crazy just one step ahead of the sheriff. Give us another  couple of months, that volume is going to be out of the market,"  Moors said.  Kilduff agrees the next downturn in oil prices will be "the  knockout blow for a lot of companies, particularly here in the  U.S."  He also thinks that it may even bring OPEC countries back into  agreement with one another.   "They're going to say 'Let's get back together and let's reign  production in,' because they may do the math on us and figure out  that they can sell less oil for more money and make even more  money than you do when you sell a lot of oil at a low price,"  said Kilduff. — Reuters contributed to this report.