  Any idea that Saudi Arabia was about to abandon its effort to  turn the oil market on its head was dashed earlier this month  when the country's top energy official said it would do something  few other industry players want to do right now: Invest.  The oil price collapse over the past 16 months has forced the  world's biggest energy companies to cut hundreds of billions of  dollars in future spending to bolster their balance sheets. But  Ali al-Naimi — oil minister and architect of the Saudi  strategy to maintain output and keep prices low to hobble its  rivals — voiced a commitment to press on with investments in  exploration, production and refining.  It reinforced the idea that however much Riyadh's revenues have  been shrunk — by an oil price that has more than halved  — the kingdom has a higher pain threshold than  everybody else. And it will press  ahead with its long-term plan to undermine  rivals and secure its market share  "No one in Saudi thinks lower oil prices are good," says one  Riyadh-based western diplomat. "But it is the reality. They have  to weather through it and hope this strategy plays out. There is  a great deal of uncertainty."  Supplies from high-cost producers — ranging from US shale to  Brazil's deepwater fields — swelled in a world of $100 a  barrel oil and led to a shift in the market forcing a response  from the kingdom which felt it had been pushed into a corner. The  November 2014 Saudi-led decision by Opec ministers to maintain, rather than cut,  output marked a significant departure from the cartel's  traditional policy of reducing supply to stabilise price drops  and upended an energy order in place for decades.  The push to focus on its own market share, rather than higher oil  prices, is showing some signs of success. But it is also  considered a perilous gambit that could last years, affecting the  kingdom's economy far more than anticipated.  "It is working," says Bob McNally, a consultant at Rapidan Group  which advises on the energy market. "But it is going to be longer  and costlier than the Saudis expected. They're stuck in this  seemingly endless trench warfare and have a bigger fight than  expected."Read More  Is the oil rally for real?  Industry observers say they were acting too late but that in the  absence of support from other major producers to cut output,  Saudi Arabia had no choice. Leonardo Maugeri, a former executive  at ENI, the Italian energy group, who this summer briefed Saudi  officials on oil market dynamics says they do not consider what  they have done to be a gamble.  "This was the only possible strategy they had," he says. "Saudi  Arabia is hoping sooner or later that the strategy will work, but  they are having to go through a lot of pain to find out."  Investment cuts and project deferrals will have a grave impact on  high-cost production outside of Opec countries in the coming  year, energy forecasters predict. That should translate into  greater demand for crude from the cartel's producers.  Saudi Arabia has so-far shown itself to be resilient: retaining  its share of imports to Asian markets amid increased competition  from rivals such as Iran and Iraq. Lower crude prices have also  boosted demand for refined products from the US and Europe.  But Saudi Arabia is only at the beginning of what could be a  long-drawn out process. The effort to rid the world of 2 million  barrels a day in excess supply could take several years. Even if  prices bounce back to previous highs — as spending cuts  reduce production too much — expensive oil output could  surge again. Although Saudi officials hope flexible US shale  production will prevent this, it is still uncertain.  As the experiment plays out, the kingdom is burning through its  reserves to maintain social spending. The country has turned to  the debt markets while renewed speculation against the Saudi  riyal and a yo-yoing stock market have amplified anxieties about  King Salman's economy. War in Yemen, China's economic slowdown  and Iran's re-emergence have also raised the political and  economic stakes.  "Ali al-Naimi said he was ready to see prices go down to $20.  They [The Saudis] don't care about others," says Ali Assaoui, a  Riyadh based analyst. "The Saudis are the masters of the long  game. Remember if they are suffering, others are suffering more" The gain: Shelving of $1 trillion in investment damages  rivals  The impact of the Saudi Arabia-led decision to forgo  high oil prices and short-term revenues for long-term  market share has been felt all around the world: from Aberdeen  and Alberta to Stavanger and Houston.  It was in the Texas oil town at the start of the year, as oil  prices stood at levels last seen during the financial crisis,  that Gallery Furniture owner Jim "Mattress Mack" McIngvale  launched an offer to give away furniture should US benchmark  crude top $85 a barrel at the end of 2015. Those initially  convinced by the offer to "give you back 100 per cent of your  purchase amount" are now doubtful. "A lot of people immediately  piled in believing that prices would inevitably rise. [But] who  in their right mind is going to fall for that now?" says an oil  analyst in Houston.  It turns out that Saudi Arabia was not bluffing about its pledge  to see off the threat of US shale oil among other high-cost  producers, she says.  For much of the past decade, the oil industry has been defined by  robust demand growth and a consistent struggle for supplies.  The growth of US shale turned the market on its head  and forced Saudi Arabia and other oil-rich nations to change  tack.  "What were they going to do, support the price for everyone else  while they see their own production go down the tubes?" says Gary  Ross, chairman of consultancy Pira Energy. "Momentum is moving  towards where [the Opec nations] want it to go. So they  are toeing the line with the strategy."  While Saudi Arabia has produced more than 10 million barrels a  day for much of this year, and cranked up investment, exports and  drilling, the financial screws are tightening on many US  operators. Although Saudi officials say they "welcome" US  shale production — it offers the production flexibility that  Riyadh in some instances no longer wants to provide — they  want to slow its growth. The US government expects  production — which had risen by an annual 1m b/d average  since 2012 — to decline from an average of 9.3 million b/d  in 2015 to 8.9 million b/d next year.  Mark Papa, the former head of EOG Resources, which helped  spur the US shale boom, said the sector needed at least $80 a  barrel to increase production growth — last week the price  was bouncing around $50 a barrel on the back  of Middle East tensions. "We are about to see a pretty  dramatic decline."  The impact of Riyadh playing hard ball is starting to be  felt: drilling, well completions and credit lines for US  companies have taken a hit and bankruptcies loom. Although North  America has taken the brunt of the pain, it is spreading  internationally.  Bernard Duroc-Danner, chief executive of oil services  group Weatherford International, last week likened the scale  of cost-cutting in the industry to the late 1990s slump. "I  suspect by the year end it will be 250,000 to 300,000 people who  have [lost their jobs since 2014]. The brutality of the costs  side is exceptional."  The International Energy Agency has said the move by Saudi Arabia  to dent rival output "appears to be having the intended effect".  It expects oil production outside Opec countries to decline by  nearly 500,000 b/d next year, the largest drop since the collapse  of the Soviet Union. US shale will account for 80 per cent of  that fall, but other countries — the UK, Russia and beyond  — will also suffer. More from the Financial Times: Saudi Arabia forced to embrace change UK-Saudi 'secret deal' on UN rights panel Saudi-led coalition seizes Iranian vessel  Plunging oil prices have rendered more than $1 trillion of future  spending across the globe uneconomical, according to Wood  Mackenzie, the consultancy. With production drops expected over  the next year, the IEA says demand for crude from Opec nations is  expected to rise to 32 million b/d in the second half of 2016  — the highest in seven years.  "The Saudis will benefit," says Nat Kern, president of Foreign  Reports, a Washington-based consultancy. "They have a long wait  in the meantime and of course $60 oil would be a preferred reward  to $40 oil, but it will come."  Facing growing competition in 2014, Saudi officials say they  sought to send a message to the investment community.  Meanwhile the kingdom is aggressively marketing crude to  important Asian customers, from China to India. Its share of oil  imports to the region held at about 23 per cent from January to  June. This is similar to the same period in 2014, the US energy  department says, even amid growing competition from Opec peers  that will intensify as Iranian barrels re-enter the market after  international sanctions are lifted.  Despite the price collapsing far more than Saudi oil officials  and executives had expected, the country — with more than  $600 billion in foreign exchange reserves — can withstand  heavy losses.  "The Saudi economy has buffers to absorb some of the pain," says  Bassam Fattouh, director of the Oxford Institute for Energy  Studies. "It has a big capacity to borrow, and banks have high  liquidity and are willing to lend."  When Saudi Arabia embarked on its oil strategy, officials assured  worried citizens that the pain of the price crash would not last  long.  Mohammed al-Mady, the chief executive of Saudi petrochemical  giant Sabic, talked of lower oil prices lasting a year or  so. Government officials assured markets that the precipitous  price drop was "temporary." But amid concerns over China's  economy, the driver of oil import growth for the past decade,  confidence in the short-term nature of the price slide has  mutated into worries about the impact of lower spending trickling  through the economy.  Oil revenue accounts for 80 per cent of government income and 45  per cent of gross domestic product. The prospect of a more  parsimonious 2016 — after small scale spending cuts this  year — is deepening the gloom.  Most agree that the Gulf monarchy had little choice but to defend  its market share amid weakening demand. But the resulting cap on  prices is severely affecting spending — which has been used  to paper over social unrest and buy loyalty — during the  past 13 years of almost continuous oil market strength. Read MoreRussia-Saudi oil  cooperation is 'hogwash': Kilduff  Columnist Abdulhamid al-Omari recently wrote that an extended  period of low oil prices would exacerbate the kingdom's crises,  including unemployment, the housing shortage, income inequality  and private debt.  "Without a doubt the national economy is facing heavy challenges,  the like of which may not have been seen in our modern history,"  he wrote.  HSBC, for example, says Saudi Arabia faces the biggest trade  shock in a generation. With oil prices forecast between $50-$60 a  barrel through to 2017, hydrocarbon revenues — $246 billion  in 2014 — will be 45 per cent lower than the previous three  years. In response the government has delayed some infrastructure  projects, such as the $22 billion Riyadh metro, but it has yet to  make the deep adjustments necessary, says economist Nasser Saidi.  The monarchy's financial buffers have allowed the government to  maintain spending and push back difficult reform choices —  at least for now.  This year's $130 billion budget deficit — compared with last  year's deficit of $17 billion and 2013's surplus of $48 billion  — can be sustained for almost three years with the $370  billion of government savings at the central bank, while foreign  reserves, down $82.5 billion from $737 billion last August, can  defend the riyal peg to the dollar from overseas speculation.  Farouk Soussa, chief regional economist for Citi, says debt  levels could within four years reach 100 per cent of GDP, as they  did in 2000.  "In one sense, it's not so bad — Saudi has six or seven  years until it goes back to 2001," says Mr Soussa. "But that  would not be a good idea — they have to protect  intergenerational wealth."  For the first time in eight years, Saudi Arabia has issued local  bonds that are expected to raise $27 billion by year's end. The  money will soften the funding blow but Standard & Poor's says  the domestic banking system will only be able to lend the  government up to $100 billion. Riyadh may then have to turn to  international debt markets in 2016 or 2017.Read MoreTourism to replace oil economy in Saudi Arabia?  The son of the king, Deputy Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, is  now the most powerful economic figure in the country. His allies  say he will transform the private sector by breaking up  monopolies and ushering through privatisation programmes.  He pitched to top business leaders in Washington last month,  calling for US investment into health and infrastructure. But  observers query whether his vision can be transformed into  reality.  Inevitably spending on subsidies and wages will also need to be  cut as Riyadh rebalances the books. Energy subsidies, which the  International Monetary Fund is calling on Riyadh to review, cost  the kingdom $106 billion in 2015, or $3,400 per capita, according  to the fund. But it is a difficult balancing act. Sensitivity to  a reform backlash haunts Riyadh.  The late King Abdullah cruised through the popular unrest of the  Arab spring by raising salaries and pledging $130 billion in  infrastructure investment. But his successor now faces the much  tougher challenge of introducing structural reform while  tightening the country's fiscal belt. Prince Mohammed was only a  teenager when the government last considered cutting electricity  tariffs in 2000. A backlash from wealthy industrialists and the  population forced the government to shelve these plans.  The fiscal situation was saved when the oil price rose after  2002, allowing a period of rising government spending as the  authorities battled an al-Qaeda campaign in 2003-06. Now, with  rapidly depleting coffers, the kingdom faces the threat of a new  insurgency from domestic sympathisers of militant group Isis.  At the same time, it is spending billions of dollars on the  campaign to reinstall the Yemen government overthrown by  Iran-allied Shia rebels.  The Saudi business community is still hopeful that an oil price  revival could offer some fiscal leeway, but hopes of a quick  turnround are fading.  "Yes the stakes are high," says Mr Saidi. "And the economics are  biting."