At those levels, Brent was trading solidly above levels last seen prior to Nov. 27, 2014, the day OPEC refused to tackle oversupply in the oil market by agreeing to cap its production.However, in a sign the market could struggle to maintain those levels, oil prices fell sharply on Tuesday morning, losing about $1 a barrel from the day's highs as U.S. stock markets slumped.Brent crude 5-year performance, source: FactsetUntil the November 2014 OPEC meeting, oil prices had slid about 30 percent from multiyear highs over the course of five months. OPEC's decision that year supercharged the sell-off, with Brent prices dropping from $77.75 the day before the meeting to $70.15 the day after.OPEC and top oil exporter Saudi Arabia had wagered that low oil prices would force U.S. shale drillers to throttle back production. Shale drillers use expensive methods to squeeze oil and gas from rock formations in parts of the United States.However, OPEC miscalculated, and Brent ultimately fell as low as $27.10 per barrel in January 2016. That persuaded OPEC to work with Russia and several other producers to take 1.8 million barrels a day off the market beginning in 2017.That deal has helped boost prices back to where they were prior to OPEC's fateful decision. The price recovery has exceeded expectations thanks to robust oil demand; an economic crisis that has tanked Venezuela's production; and renewed U.S. sanctions on Iran, OPEC's third-largest producer, by President Donald Trump.While surging U.S. production is offsetting the output curbs, OPEC appears to be in control of the market right now, said John Kilduff, founding partner at energy hedge fund Again Capital. In his view, OPEC could allow prices for U.S. crude to run up from today's prices between $70 and $72 a barrel to $80 to $85 a barrel."For now, it's going to stay high and it could easily be engineered higher by the Saudis until they get pressured maybe by President Trump to put more oil on the market," he told CNBC's "Squawk Box" on Tuesday.Last month, Trump tweeted that oil prices are "artificially Very High," pointing a finger at OPEC for elevated crude costs, which can hurt incumbent politicians by raising fuel prices for voters.West Texas Intermediate crude futures, the American benchmark, closed on Thursday at their highest levels since the day before the November 2014 OPEC meeting, but they have yet to settle higher than they did on that day.