  Oil prices inched up toward $50 a barrel on Monday, although  uncertainty ahead of an OPEC producer-group meeting later in the  week was expected to cap gains.  The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting  Countries (OPEC) meets in Vienna on Thursday and most  analysts did not expect any changes in the group's production.  While OPEC has been unable to agree on an output freeze to  support prices, Iraq was the latest Middle East producer to raise  its export quota ahead of the meeting, supplying 5 million  barrels of extra crude to its partners in June.  "So far there's pretty much a consensus that nothing will happen  and that the same strategies will continue, which are basically  produce as much as you want and go for market share," said energy  economist James L. Williams of WTRG Economics in Arkansas.  Price moves will be choppy in the run-up to the meeting, Williams  added. Brent crude futures settled up  44 cents at $49.76 a barrel, reversing losses from earlier in the  day. There was no settlement in U.S. West Texas Intermediate, or WTI,  crude futures because of the U.S. Memorial Day holiday, but WTI  was up 27 cents at $49.60.  Trade was subdued because of public holidays in Britain and the  United States, where Memorial Day is seen as the traditional  start of U.S. summer driving season.  Vienna-based consultancy JBC Energy said global oil demand rose  by 1.5 million barrels per day in January-April. That was  stronger than many forecasts and stemmed from strong consumption  in the United States, China and India.  U.S. crude output also dropped to its lowest since September 2014  after drillers cut rigs for the ninth week in 10 despite the  recent rally in oil prices.  However, an expected rise in Canadian oil sands production could  weigh on WTI. Suncor Energy is planning to ramp up output at its  fields in Alberta this week after it was forced to shut them down  earlier in May because of massive wildfires.  Outages because of wildfires in Canada and unrest in Libya and  Nigeria helped to push oil prices to a seven-month high in recent  weeks.