  The U.S. dollar has been on a tear that threatens to derail the  oil price rally and OPEC's effort to balance an  oversupplied crude market, the editor of The Schork Report warned on  Wednesday.Dollar strength is being driven by  forecasts for stronger economic growth and inflation in the  United States than in other developed nations.  Oil prices have so far risen along with the dollar following an  agreement among producing nations to cut output. But a  stronger greenback typically weighs on crude futures because the  commodity is priced in the currency. When the dollar rises, crude  becomes more expensive to holders of other currencies.  "If we do see continued strength in the dollar that will have a  double whammy on oil prices," Stephen Schork told CNBC's "Squawk  Box."  First and foremost, prolonged dollar strength will inevitably  crimp demand for crude oil, he explained. Lower demand will make  it harder for the OPEC's output cuts to reduce huge stockpiles of crude that built up around  the world following a boom in oil production.  That boom flooded the world with more oil than could be consumed  and cratered crude prices.  Low prices boosted demand for crude throughout 2016 in emerging  markets, and particularly in China, the world's second biggest  oil consumer, said Matt Smith, head of commodities research at  ClipperData. Higher prices threaten to substantially  curb China's opportunistic buying, he told "Squawk  Box" on Tuesday.  A stronger dollar will also tempt OPEC members and other  producing countries to exceed the oil output limits they set in  recent weeks, Schork said.  "From a seller standpoint — from an OPEC standpoint —  your propensity to cheat and increase production to take  advantage of dollar-denominated sales will increase," he said.  The OPEC cuts are scheduled to take effect next week. Schork said  the market is making some broad-based assumptions about the  effort.  One of those assumptions is that investors will see something  they have never seen before: 100-percent compliance by OPEC  members to production cuts. The producer group has a history of  cheating on quotas.  Even if investors see a high degree of compliance, OPEC  production will be higher than it was last year, Schork said.  "But if OPEC reverts to being OPEC — that is to say 60 to 70  percent compliance — then OPEC is still going to be  producing 700,000 to 800,000 barrels of oil ... more this January  than last January," he said.