 Oil hit its lowest level in nearly a month last week, but  one of Wall Street's top commodities analysts says a recovery is  on the way in 2016.   On CNBC's "Futures  Now", global head of commodities strategy at RBC Capital  Markets Helima Croft predicted that oil will rebound following a scheduled  meeting between OPEC and non-OPEC members on April 17th in the  Qatari capital.  "We spent an entire year with [Saudi Arabia and Russia]  saying everything was fine," explained Croft."Their decision to come out and even mention a  freeze was a catalyst for the rally" that recently pulled crude to within view of $40, Croft said. "As we look towards the April  17 meeting, I don't think Saudi Arabia would even show up in Doha  if there wasn't going to be an agreement."  Read MoreNo signs OPEC  production cut is close at handSpeculation over a potential accord between cartel members has whipsawed global energy markets. According to a statement from Qatari energy minister Mohammed Bin  Saleh Al-Sada, approximately 15 producers representing 73 percent  of global oil output will meet to discuss the possibility of a  production freeze. For now, Iran remains the OPEC wild card, because Tehran is seeking an increase of exports following the lifting of sanctions earlier this year.    However, oil analysts say the market remains oversupplied, keeping a cap on crude prices. Croft told CNBC that could easily change if the world's largest oil producer takes action in the near term. Read MoreAll that oil wasn't so great after all: Goldman"If Saudi Arabia freezes at their January levels, and that holds  through the summer, that's an effective cut of several hundred  thousands of barrels a day," noted Croft. In terms of gauging the market, Croft sees a "quiet period"  taking effect, wherein U.S. oil, or West Texas Intermediate, will likely slip to $35 ahead of the  meeting. "In the next couple of weeks, we think [oil prices] will drift a  little bit lower," she said. "We've had so much short-covering and I don't  think there's very much left of that [since] we remain  over-supplied and the fundamentals remain soft," said  Croft. In the long-term, Croft noted that getting oil back to $50 per  barrel will take time, but is doable assuming major producers  continue to struggle with their supplies. "We still expect a recovery to $50" by the fourth quarter, the analyst said. "One thing we are  watching is mounting supply disruptions coming out of places like  Nigeria and Northern Iraq. If those continue to mount [that  could] bring the re-balance into Q3. So we are watching those  supply outages. If that eats into our overhang, [we may] get a  recovery in Q3 to the 50's as opposed to Q4."From there, Croft added that the move from $50 to $60 per barrel  will be harder, because of the need to work off the inventory,  which is typically a slower process. 