Oil futures rose on Monday after  OPEC sources said Saudi crude production unexpectedly fell in July,  raising concerns about global oil supplies  as the United States  prepares to reinstate sanctions against major exporter Iran.Brent crude futures rose 45 cents to $73.66 a barrel, a 0.6 percent gain. U.S. West Texas  Intermediate (WTI) crude futures rose 52 cents to settle at $69.01 a barrel, a 0.8 percent gain.Saudi Arabia pumped  around 10.29 million barrels per day (bpd) of crude in July, two OPEC  sources said on Friday, down about 200,000 bpd from a month earlier.That came despite a pledge by the Saudis and top producer Russia in June to raise output from  July, with Saudi Arabia  promising a "measurable" supply boost."The Saudis are reining in production gains in an attempt to maintain Brent  pricing" at about $70 to $75 a barrel, Jim Ritterbusch,  president of Ritterbusch and Associates, said in a note.U.S. investment bank  Jefferies said in a note that "the Saudi and Russian production surges appear to  be more limited" than expected, adding that the imminent reinstatement of  U.S. sanctions against  Iran also fed bullish  sentiment.Washington is  due to reinstate some sanctions against Iran that it suspended after a 2015 deal between world  powers and Tehran  that sought to curb Iran's  nuclear program.Some of the sanctions will come back on Tuesday at 12:01 a.m.  EDT (1601 GMT). The United States also plans to re-introduce sanctions  on Iranian oil in November, which could  dent the OPEC member's output.Renewed sanctions are part of the Trump administration's strategy to deny  resources to the Iranian leadership.Washington  wants as many countries as possible to cut imports of Iranian oil to zero, a senior U.S. administration official said in  a telephone press briefing.Most Iranian crude exports go to China and India, but roughly 20 percent go to Europe, where refiners have already  cut their purchases.Meanwhile, U.S. energy  companies last week cut oil rigs for a  second time in the past three weeks as the rate of growth has slowed over the  past couple of months.Oil prices "may also be finding support  from oil transport infrastructural problems  in the U.S.," Commerzbank  analysts said in a note."Admittedly, oil production there is  surging from one record high to the next. However, low pipeline capacities in  particular are preventing any more pronounced increase, and are delaying the  rebalancing of global supply and demand."