  Oil prices fell on Monday, with U.S. crude  slipping to a 3-month low on rising concerns that a global glut  of crude and refined products would pressure markets.  Data from market intelligence firm Genscape pointed to an  inventory rise of 1.1 million barrels at the Cushing, Oklahoma  delivery base for U.S. crude futures in the week to July 22, said  traders who saw the numbers.  Investors have become less optimistic that markets will balance quickly amid a  massive overhang in refined products, particularly gasoline,  despite forecasts for record U.S. summer driving.  "We've got gasoline stocks that are through the roof ... And you  have the specter of turnaround season not too far in the  horizon," Robert Yawger, senior vice president of energy futures  at Mizuho Securities USA said.  Yawger cut his price target on U.S. crude to $40 from $45 a  barrel.  The threat of resurgent U.S. oil production with the rise of  drilling rigs and a strong dollar added to the gloomy sentiment  in the market, traders and brokers said. Brent  crude futures were trading at $44.65 a barrel by 4;25 p.m ET, down $1.04 cents or 2.28 percent from their previous close.  The contract fell to an intraday low of $44.55, a low going back  to May 10. U.S.  crude settled down $1.06, or 2.4 percent, at $43.13 a  barrel and was last down $1.14, or 2.58 percent, at $43.05 a barrel, having  earlier touch $42.97, their lowest level since April 26. The settle marked the lowest since April 25, when oil settled at $42.64 per barrel.   "Supply continues to return from disruptions, refined products  are severely oversupplied, crude demand is falling well short of  product demand, and key product demand is decelerating," Morgan  Stanley said in a note.  The decline in U.S. output has been key to balancing a market  that has been grappling with excess crude for nearly two years,  but with prices recovering from 12-year lows, signs of drilling  activity have re-emerged.  U.S. drillers added oil rigs for a fourth consecutive week,  according to last week's data from a closely followed report by  energy services firm Baker Hughes.  But it could be premature to assume it could lead to a rise in  production, some analysts said.  "Although drilling activity is now at its highest level since the  end of March, it is still 30 percent below the level at which it  found itself at the beginning of the year." Commerzbank analysts  said in a note.  Barclays bank said global oil demand in the third quarter of 2016  was expanding at less than a third of the year-earlier rate,  weighed down by anemic economic growth.  Globally, demand support from developed economies had faded,  while growth from China and India had slowed, Barclays said.  New tensions in Libya highlight that the OPEC member is unlikely  to see a significant boost to its oil exports any time soon,  after the national oil corporation said it objected to a deal to  reopen key ports.