  Oil prices slipped below the psychologically important level of  $40 a barrel during trading Monday, and another $5 drop could be on the  horizon, according to analysts.  Bets that U.S. crude's West Texas Intermediate contract will rise  have "pretty much evaporated" as the assumptions underpinning the  bull case for oil have collapsed, Again Capital founding partner John Kilduff told CNBC.A Reuters survey released Friday showed OPEC output likely hit  the highest level in recent history. On the same day, oilfield  services firm Baker Hughes reported drillers increased the number  of rigs operating in U.S. fields for a fifth straight week.  Meanwhile, Saudi Aramco reduced the official selling price of  benchmark Arab light grade, sparking fears of a renewed battle  for market share among OPEC members that could put more crude  into an already oversupplied market.   Oil watchers had already feared another leg lower as  refined-products stockpiles hit record levels, reducing demand  for crude just as peak driving season in the United States comes  to a close and refiners prepare to shut facilities for fall  maintenance.  "There was a thought the strong gasoline demand would drain the  swamp but it hasn't," Kilduff said, adding that "I think we're going to ultimately head down to at least $35."   Traders last week told CNBC that a fall below $40 a barrel opens  the possibility of a move toward $36. At that level, Kilduff said  traders would have to reconsider whether oil prices could test  last winter's low of $26.05 a barrel.  Mike Dragosits, senior commodities strategist TD Securities, also  identified $35 as a critical support level.   However, he said WTI's break below its 200-day moving average on  Monday occurred on normal volume, potentially signaling that the  decline is a "fake-out push." He said stronger volume would be a  signal of more downside.  Still, he doesn't think a $20-handle is in the cards for oil.  "I think if it got down to $35, you'd have people stepping in.  The fundamentals are a lot better than they were at the beginning  of the year," Dragosits told CNBC.  WTI dipped below its 200-day moving average of $40.76 last week,  but futures at that time bounced off the move to close slightly  higher on Friday.  Tamar Essner, energy director at Nasdaq Advisory Services, told  CNBC's "Squawk on the Street" on Monday that she believes oil can trade  below $39 intraday, but does not believe crude will languish at $40  a barrel on a sustained basis. She noted that while short  positions have indeed risen to near February levels, investors  have not cut their long positions as deeply as they did at that  time. — CNBC's Patti Domm contributed to this story.