  Oil prices rose on Tuesday as investors anticipated a weekly  drawdown in U.S. crude inventories that they hoped would boost  prices closer to $50 a barrel.  "We're gearing up on expectations that the wildfires in Canada  may finally be showing up in U.S. crude inventory numbers," said  Phil Flynn, analyst at the Price Futures Group in Chicago. "If  they show up decisively, it may be what the market needs to test  $50."  Commercial crude stocks in the United States likely fell by  around 2.5 million barrels to 538.8 million in the week ended May  20, a Reuters poll showed.  The American Petroleum Institute (API), a trade group, will issue  its own data on U.S. crude stockpiles at 4:30 p.m. EDT (2030  GMT), ahead of official numbers from the U.S. government on  Wednesday morning.  Oil also got a lift as U.S. stocks rose to their highest in the  last seven sessions, helped by gains in technology and financial  stocks. Crude buyers seemed unfazed by a stronger dollar, which  typically makes greenback-denominated oil costlier in other  currencies. Brent  futures were up 39 cents to $48.74 a barrel by 1:15 p.m.  ET (1715 GMT). U.S. crude  futures rose 59 cents to $48.67 a barrel.   Oil was also supported by an Iraqi official's remarks that  maintenance issues and power outages have caused the OPEC  member's output to fall to 4.5 million barrels per day from  January's record high of 4.78 million bpd.  Consultant IHS added to the bullish theme, saying just 2.8  billion barrels of oil were discovered outside North America in  2015, the lowest since 1952, following a sharp fall in  exploration and appraisal drilling.  "As spare capacity dwindles, the threat of a price spike  increases," said Matt Smith, who tracks crude cargoes for New  York-based Clipperdata. "Non-OPEC production should continue to  fall through the duration of the year, gradually erasing the  supply overhang and further tightening up crude fundamentals."  A meeting of the OPEC exporter group, including Iran, is  scheduled for June 2.  Plans for a deal between OPEC and non-OPEC producers to shore up  crude prices by freezing output fell apart in April when Saudi  Arabia demanded that Iran, its main rival for influence in the  region, participate.  A strike in France limited the market's gains by denting crude  demand in Europe as refineries were disrupted by pickets.  French police using water cannon and tear gas broke up a strike  picket that was blocking access to a large oil refinery in the  southern port area of Marseille in a government-versus-union  showdown over labour law reforms.  Sommer at Axpo Trading added that gains were likely to be  short-lived, and that prices were likely to fall again in the  coming weeks.  "There's an ongoing trend of increasing supply. Supply from  unplanned outages in Nigeria and Canada are likely to come back,"  he said, referring to disruption caused in the two countries by  protests and wildfires.