  Oil prices rose about 2 percent on Friday on expectations that a  weekend meeting of the world's top oil producers would  demonstrate compliance to a global output cut deal.  A weekend meeting in Vienna of members of the Organization of the  Petroleum Exporting Countries and some producers outside of the  group, including Russia, will establish a compliance mechanism to  verify producers are sticking to a deal to reduce output by 1.8  million barrels per day (bpd), OPEC's secretary general told  Reuters.  Saudi Arabia's energy minister said that 1.5 million bpd had  already been taken out of the market, adding to signs that the  oil market is rebalancing.  "The petroleum markets are moving higher in Friday trade on the  latest round of positive talk about how much supply oil producers  have taken offline ahead of Sunday's review by OPEC and non-OPEC  representatives in Vienna," Tim Evans, Citi Futures' energy  futures specialist, said in a note. U.S. West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude oil  futures settled up $1.05, 2 percent, at $52.42 a  barrel.  International benchmark Brent crude prices  were up $1.34, or 2.5 percent, at $55.50 a barrel by 2:33 p.m. ET  (1933 GMT). ended trading down nearly 5 percent on forecasts for warmer winter weather.  Oil prices briefly pared gains after oilfield services firm Baker  Hughes reported its weekly count of oil rigs operating in the  United States increased by 29 to 551, compared with 522 at this  time last year.  That marked the largest weekly increase since a recovery in the  rig count began in June, and the 11th week in 12 that drillers  added rigs.  Swelling oil stockpiles in the U.S. and rising shale production  could threaten market rebalancing, analysts said.  "For a lasting balance to be restored on the oil market and the  very high stocks reduced, the agreement will need to be strictly  implemented over a considerable period of time," Commerzbank said  in a note.  "This is particularly true given that U.S. oil production is  rising again and given that the oil supply from Libya and Nigeria  may be expanded."  U.S. crude inventories rose unexpectedly last week as refineries  sharply slowed production, while gasoline stocks soared amid weak  demand, the Energy Information Administration said on Thursday.  Crude inventories soared 2.3 million barrels in the week to Jan.  13, while gasoline builds were much larger than expected,  especially on the U.S. East Coast where stocks swelled to the  highest level on record for this time of year.  The market was also eyeing U.S. drilling rig count data due after  1 p.m. as increased exploration and more efficient wells were  boosting oil production.  Libya's National Oil Corporation (NOC) said production had now  climbed to 722,000 bpd, resuming its rise after poor weather had  caused a small dip.  Bjarne Schieldrop, chief commodities analyst at SEB Markets, said  Brent crude was starting to move into a trading range centered  around $55 a barrel as the production cut deal had placed a floor  price of $50 a barrel, while U.S. shale oil producers were  capping the upside at $60 a barrel.  "As a new consensus is starting to form, the fog around the oil  market balance is starting to clear and the oil price is likely  going to start to stabilize," he said. — CNBC's Tom DiChristopher contributed to this  story.