  oil dipped below $87 a barrel on Wednesday after the Fed announced it would end  its two-year-old bond-buying stimulus program. The benchmark oil price rose above $87 earlier as traders anticipated that the Fed would keep U.S.  interest rates low, putting pressure on the dollar. Read MoreConsumer confidence hits 94.5 in  October, versus 87 estimate  Brent crude for December had reached as high as $87.94 a barrel ahead of the announcement. Front-month U.S. crude had topped out at $82.88 a barrel.  Prices also gained support from buoyant stock markets in Europe  and Asia, after U.S. stocks ended more than 1 percent higher on  Tuesday.  U.S. consumer confidence rose in October to its highest since  October 2007 as views on the job market improved, according to a  private-sector report released Tuesday. OPEC Secretary General Abdullah  al-Badri said Wednesday the cartel does not have a price  target and that there is no need to panic at falling prices. Read More Weak oil price hits Total  results  "The fundamentals do not reflect this low price," Badri said at  the annual Oil & Money conference in London.  He also predicted that U.S. oil production would slow, and  that OPEC should be ready to produce 40 million barrels per day  of crude by 2020.  OPEC now has a production target of 30 million bpd and Badri  suggested last month that this should be cut to around 29.5  million bpd.Read More  Libya near 'point of no return': UN envoy  U.S. stocks of gasoline and distillates fell by 3.7 million  barrels and 3 million barrels respectively, three times more than  analysts' expectations, data from industry group American  Petroleum Institute showed on Tuesday.  U.S. crude inventories rose 2.1 million barrels last week, well  below analysts' expectation of a 3.4-million-barrel increase,  according to the U.S. government's Energy Information  Administration.  Crude inventories have risen for the past three weeks, typical in  the approach to winter, when demand increases.  Several major banks have cut their price forecasts in the past two weeks for Brent and  U.S. crude next year, but weeks of losses  have brought prices into the range of these revised forecasts.—CNBC contributed to this report.