  Oil prices fell on Thursday, under pressure from rising supplies  both in the United States, where inventories gained for a sixth  straight week, and in Europe, where physical crude prices are  nearing five-month lows.  On Wednesday, oil dropped nearly 4 percent after the Energy  Information Administration said U.S. crude inventories added 2.85  million barrels last week, in line with forecasts, despite a fall  in imports to their lowest level since 1991. Read MoreThis could signal a  near-term bottom for commodities  Prices briefly came off their session lows in midday trade as  the  erased most early losses, but crude futures were  testing those lows once again as U.S. crude headed into the day's  settlement. U.S. WTI crude closed down  $1.12, or 2.42 percent, at $45.20 a barrel after declining 3 percent  in the previous session.     futures were down 70 cents at $48 a barrel, some 4 percent below  four-week highs above $50 hit two days earlier.Oil contracts were also tracking weak gasoline prices. Gasoline futures lost  nearly 1 percent, extending Wednesday's 4-percent tumble, amid  worries of peak turnout from U.S. refineries as the autumn  maintenance cycle draws to a close.  "What we're seeing is not a good sign for November," said Scott  Shelton, oil broker and commodities specialist at ICAP in Durham,  North Carolina. Read MoreOil companies are  learning to do more with less  Market intelligence firm Genscape added to the bearish sentiment  in crude oil, estimating a build of over 383,000 barrels at the  Cushing, Oklahoma delivery point for U.S. crude futures in the  week to Nov. 3, traders who saw the data said.  According to Genscape, Cushing took in nearly 713,000 barrels in  the four days to Nov. 3, showing a supply onslaught late in that  week which most likely offset an earlier draw, the traders said.  Outside of the United States, supply of North Sea crude, which  underpins Brent prices, is also ample, pushing the global crude  benchmark to June lows.  Brent's spot contract and oil slated for delivery in a year was  at a discount, or "contango", of nearly $7 a barrel, the biggest  in two months. Read MoreOil slump sends Saudi  Arabia's PMI to all-time low  "The difficulty right now for the market is being able to lift  off from the current floor that it has found in the mid-$40s on a  WTI basis," said BNP Paribas global head of commodity strategy  Harry Tchilinguirian said.  "For that to happen, the market needs to see, at least  directionally, some form of improvement, whether that translates  into significantly lower production in the U.S. or at least much  stronger refinery runs."—CNBC's Tom DiChristopher contributed to this story.