 Oil prices were flat in Asian trade after a surprise  OPEC deal to limit output, as skepticism mounted over how  the oil cartel would enforce the cut.      At an informal meeting at Algiers, the 14-member OPEC agreed to  cut production for the first time since 2008, proposing new  production levels at 32.5 million to 33 million barrels a day, a  700,000 drop on August production levels at 33.24 million barrels  a day. More details are expected  to be hammered out at the  group's next policy meeting on November 30.   Once OPEC hits its target, the group will seek support from  non-member oil producers to further ease the global supply glut,  Reuters reported.      Oil prices settled up nearly 6 percent on Wednesday in the U.S.  after news of the deal, then continued to rise early in Asian  trade before those gains pared. Benchmark U.S. West Texas  Intermediate were traded around $47.10 a barrel and  European Brent crude moved around $48.60 a barrel around  11am HK/SIN time.The rise tapered off as the market  became increasingly cautious over the details of the agreement  and how it would be enforced, particularly since the OPEC members  have a history of not adhering to production quotas.       "The Saudis will probably do their part but there will be a lot  of temptation on the part of the other OPEC members to boost  their production despite the agreement, which was what we saw  happen frequently during the 1980s when OPEC used to limit their  production. It was mainly Saudi Arabia that was cutting its  production; the other members weren't really following through  with their end of the deal," CME Group's economist Erick Norland  told CNBC's "The Rundown" on Thursday.     Wells Fargo Funds chief portfolio strategist Brian Jacobsen  added, "It's is an organization in name only. These are  political entities. They are motivated by more political factors  here."  That the OPEC decided unexpectedly to cut output also pointed to  larger macroeconomic issues and a supply-demand mismatch that  would continue to weigh on the market, one expert said.      "A cut in production may be welcome for traders, but for  investors it's yet another signpost that the massive stimulus  efforts we have seen around the globe have yet to bear fruit in  terms of delivering moderately faster growth," Adviser  Investments CIO Jim Lovell told CNBC.      While global demand growth has been soft, energy supply has kept  growing, CME's Norland said, meaning U.S. weekly crude oil  inventory was now up about 10 percent on-year and 41 percent  higher than two years ago.  Despite the caution on the nature of the OPEC deal, oil prices  will get some support from the latest maneuver, pros said.       "These collusive agreements rarely amount to much over the  long-term but in the near term here, I think we do have oil  moving back into a more sustainable region," said Wells Fargo's Jacobsen.      Oil prices would likely stay in the $43-$53 a barrel range over  the next year, but will increasingly move from the lower to mid  and upper-end of the range, he added.  Follow CNBC International on Twitter and Facebook.