 U.S. crude for  December snapped a three-day losing streak to settle up  more than 6 percent, or  $2.74, at   $45.94 a barrel on Wednesday.  Oil futures recovered after paring gains slightly following the Federal Reserve's announcement that it would leave interest rates near zero.  Prices had risen on Wednesday, extending gains from an earlier  rally, after the U.S. reported a crude inventory build that  reversed bearish market expectations. Read MoreMega 'midstream' deals  drive oil and gas M&A: PwC  The price spike stalled oil bears' expectations for a longer and deeper price rout after futures hit two-month lows in the previous session on worries about high  supplies and weak demand.  Bets that the U.S. Federal Reserve would hold off on a U.S. rate  hike had weighed on the dollar, fueling price gains across commodities and adding  to the oil rally.  were up $2.14, or 4.5 percent, at $48.95 a barrel  at 2:35 p.m. EDT (1835 GMT), having fallen to their lowest since  mid-September on Tuesday. Prices surged within 30 minutes of the start of the official  session in New York, jumping more than $1 with many traders  citing a big algorithmic trade for the hike.  The U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) added to the  rally when it reported that crude stockpiles rose 3.4 million  barrels last week, matching analysts forecasts in a Reuters poll.  But the build was less than the 4.1 million-barrel build posted  on Tuesday by industry group the American Petroleum Institute. Read MorePouring oil on troubled  waters: 'Surplus until 2017'   "The market was looking for more bearish information and got a  neutral report," Scott Shelton, energy broker and commodities  specialist with ICAP in Durham, North Carolina.  The EIA also cited an inventory drop of 785,000 barrels at the  Cushing, Oklahoma, delivery hub for U.S. crude futures.  Stockpiles of gasoline and distillates, which include diesel,  fell more than expected and front-month U.S. gasoline and  ultra-low sulfur diesel futures also gained 5 percent ahead of  contract expirations on Friday.  "The draw-down in distillates and gasoline inventories bested  expectations by a decent amount, helping to color the report  bullish," said John Kilduff, partner at Again Capital in New  York. Read MoreCrude oil is making a  mad dash for $35: Expert  But some remained steadfast that prices would turn lower  eventually, saying whatever reported by the EIA was only mildly  bullish.  "We were slightly oversold on a technical basis ... so it was not  surprising to see the bounce," said Tariq Zahir, trader in crude  oil spreads at Tyche Capital Advisors in Laurel Hollow, New York.  "I think any rallies should be sold into since we expect to  continue seeing builds in the weeks to come."