The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) is  poised to meet non-OPEC nations in Vienna on Saturday with the  hope that they will also agree to follow the cartel and cut  supply for the first time since 2008.  At their meeting last month, OPEC pledged to cut oil production  by 1.2 million barrels per day (b/d) from January 2017 and the  14-member cartel hopes non-OPEC nations can also agree to limit  supply to further prop up oil prices.   "We're hoping for 600,000 (barrels per day to be cut) from  non-OPEC (countries) so that is going to be a substantial volume  that will bring health back into the market," Khalid Al Falih,  Saudi Arabia's minister of energy told CNBC on November 30, the  day of the OPEC deal.  Russia has said it is prepared to commit to a 300,000 b/d  production cut which should, in theory, mean all of the other  non-OPEC countries combined would only have to match Russia's  pledge in order for OPEC to hit its target.  However, only five of the 14 non-OPEC oil producing countries  have agreed to attend the meeting on Saturday, according to a  Reuters report which cited two OPEC sources.   The balancing act for OPEC at its last meeting had been to agree  on individual production levels for each country while remaining  vigilant to non-OPEC exporters looking to seize a greater share  of the market.   "If non-OPEC countries decided to take advantage of OPEC cuts to  expand their own market shares, this would seriously undermine  discipline among the oil cartel members. In the short term,  though, all involved will be trying to support expectations of  tighter supply," a team of Commerzbank analysts said in a  note.  The last time OPEC and non-OPEC nations were able to agree to cut  oil production together was in 2001 and, on that occasion, the  non-OPEC countries fell significantly short of OPEC's preferred  target.  Oil prices were slightly higher on Friday as investor optimism  appeared intact that OPEC and non-OPEC producers would be able to  reach a deal in Vienna, Austria.  Brent crude was trading around $54.06 a barrel, up  0.32 percent in early afternoon European trading on Friday,  while U.S. WTI was selling at $51.21 a barrel, up  0.73 percent. Follow CNBC International on Twitter and Facebook. 