  Speculators have been increasing their bets that oil prices will  rise, setting up a punishing outcome if OPEC's production cuts  disappoint, Again Capital founding partner John Kilduff said  Thursday.  OPEC not only faces the challenge of getting its own members to  deliver the promised cuts. It must also contend with potentially weaker demand in  China and the threat of rebounding U.S. production, Kilduff  said.  "The boat is loaded to one side in the market right now. Shorts  have covered. People have piled in from the long side, waiting  for these cutbacks to come through. If they don't, there's going  to be big punishment in this market," he told CNBC's "Squawk  Box."  Members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting  Countries are scheduled to begin cutting production next  week, and other producers have committed to reducing their output  in the first half of 2017. The producers are aiming to reduce  huge stockpiles of oil that built up after a boom in  production caused in large part by a revolution in U.S. drilling.  Kilduff acknowledged that crude demand could get a boost if  President-elect  and congressional  Republicans deliver anticipated tax breaks and government  stimulus that lead to economic growth at home and abroad.   However, he said he doesn't see that translating into higher  demand in China, the world's second-largest oil consumer.  "That's the real demand center. That's the swing place, and I  still see issues there," he said.  Kilduff, a longtime skeptic of OPEC's ability to deliver output  cuts, has warned throughout the year that slowing economic growth  in China and elsewhere in Asia is the oil market's  Achilles' heel.  He is not the only one who sees red flags in China. On Tuesday,  ClipperData's director of commodities research, Matt Smith,  cautioned that rising oil prices could crimp China's  opportunistic buying. Throughout 2016, oil producers competed  fiercely for China's business, allowing the country to hunt for  bargains and fill up its strategic reserves.   The rising U.S. dollar also threatens to dent oil  demand because a stronger greenback makes crude more  expensive to holders of other currencies, Stephen  Schork, editor of The Schork Report, told "Squawk Box" on  Wednesday.  China also presents a supply problem. Small refineries known as  teapots have sprung up throughout the country, helping to boost  employment in China, but also contributing to a glut of refined  petroleum products like gasoline, Kilduff said.  "You saw a big increase in their crude oil demand to feed those  refineries. The problem is that they just turned that all right  around and exported the refined product to the global market,  particularly out in Asia," he said.  Kilduff said there is simply too little demand on the horizon,  and the figures behind forecasts that oil demand will exceed  supply by the second half of 2017 don't add up. That is partly because he doesn't believe OPEC and other oil  producers will adhere to output cuts and partly because higher oil  prices in the wake of that agreement are stimulating U.S.  production.  He noted that U.S. output has risen in recent weeks, and  steady additions to the domestic rig count signal more American crude  is on its way.Schork said the  oil market has likely reached a top at $53 to $55 a barrel. He  noted that U.S. producers have been able to lock in $55 a barrel or more for future deliveries, a price that allows more drillers to  pump profitably.Higher U.S. production puts downward pressure on oil prices because it is seen as preventing the market from burning through a global oversupply of crude.