  U.S. crude prices jumped as much as 13 percent on  Friday after a report once again suggested OPEC might finally  agree to cut production to reduce the world glut, while a bounce  in stock markets fed appetite for risk.  Despite the strong daily gain, oil prices were poised to end the  week down with significant losses. But U.S. oil settled up more  than 12 percent, for the best one-day gain since February 2009,  when WTI gained 14.04 percent.     The about-turn came after one of the most volatile weeks for oil,  with prices initially falling nearly 14 percent over a four-day  stretch before springing back higher.  The United Arab Emirates' energy minister said the Organization of the Petroleum  Exporting Countries was willing to cooperate on an  output cut, the Wall Street Journal reported  after Thursday's settlement in U.S. futures. He also said cheap  oil was forcing supply reductions that would help rebalance the  market.  The UAE's comments, coming after vain efforts earlier in the week  by Venezuela and Russia to stir Saudi Arabia and other major  producers into agreeing to output cuts, was initially greeted  with skepticism by many traders.  But after a 75-percent price slump since mid-2014 that has taken  crude prices to more than 12-year lows, many were also inclined  to believe that a rebound was due sooner or later if production  tightens or demand picks up.  "We expect declining U.S. oil production, in particular, to drive  the oil price back up to $50 per barrel by the end of the year,"  Frankfurt-based Commerzbank said in a note.  U.S. benchmark West Texas Intermediate futures settled up $3.23, or 12.32 percent, at $29.44 a barrel, and was last trading up $2.83, or 10.76 percent, at $29.03 per barrel at at 3:29 p.m   ET, off the day's high of $29.66. It hit a 12-year low of  $26.05 in the previous session. For the week, it was  on track for a 5.5 percent loss. Brent was up  $2.81, or 9.35 percent, at $32.89 per barrel. Weekly  losses were pared to about 3.7 percent.  Crude prices extended gains after data showed an eighth straight  weekly drop in the number of U.S. rigs drilling for oil. Oilfield  services firm Baker Hughes reported its weekly rig count fell by  28 to a total of 439, compared with 1,056 rigs at this time last  year.  Oil also got a boost from a rally in equity markets, with both  U.S. and European shares rebounding from recent weakness.  Some cited Monday's Presidents Day's holiday in the United States,  saying fewer players wanted to have a short position in oil ahead  the longer weekend break for the New York crude market.  But others, like Tyche Capital Advisors' Tariq Zahir, were hoping  to profit again from bearish bets once the rally peaks. "It gives  me great opportunity to put out new shorts in crude spreads," he  said.  Many expected wilder price swings in coming weeks.  "It's not a one-way price movement anymore," said ABN AMRO's  senior energy economist Hans van Cleef. "We will see a period of  high volatility".