  U.S. stocks looked set to open lower on Monday, with investor  sentiment hit by the news that major oil-producing countries had  failed to agree to a freeze on crude output.  OPEC and non-OPEC  oil-producing nations met on Sunday in Qatar to discuss a freeze.  Hopes of a deal evaporated when Saudi Arabia said it would not  freeze output unless Iran did. Iran was absent from the talks and  had already said it was unwilling to freeze output. However, oil traded well off lows touched overnight. On Sunday, Kuwait reduced its crude oil output and refining production as part of an emergency plan to help the OPEC member deal with the largest petroleum workers' strike in years, Reuters said. The news wire also cited a tweet from Kuwait Oil Company's account that said the company had cut crude output to  1.1 million barrels per day from its normal production  level of about 3 million barrels a day.  and WTI futures traded more than 3.5 percent lower, with U.S. crude oil futures for May delivery below $39 a barrel.   U.S. stock index futures held lower but well off lows as of 8:51 a.m. ET, with Dow futures trading about 50 points lower.  Read MoreTrack US stock index  futures  "The post-Doha initial knee-jerk reaction lower is expected, but  we expect prices to find support in the mid-$30/bbl range given  an otherwise improving fundamental backdrop," Helima Croft,  global head of commodity strategy at RBC Capital Markets, said in  a report on Monday.   Earnings season continued on Monday with quarterly results from  Morgan Stanley. The  financial giant posted better-than-expected earnings per share  with revenue coming in roughly in line. PepsiCo also reported first-quarter  results IBM and Netflix are scheduled to  report after U.S. markets close.  New York Fed President William Dudley said Monday morning that the normalization of monetary policy will likely remain "gradual and cautious" due to "significant uncertainties" and continued "headwinds to growth" from the financial crisis.  Read MoreEarly movers:  MS, PEP, HAS, ATHM, C, DIS, TM, GM, MDVN, NFLX &  more  Housing market indicators will dominate this week's U.S. economic  data, with the NAHB housing index out on Monday. The data was reported ahead of schedule, with the housing market index at 58 in April, unchanged from March, Reuters said.  Both Asian and European stock indexes traded lower early on  Monday as a result of the "no-deal" from Qatar.   Verizon's prospective bid for Yahoo received a boost after  potential bidders including Time, Alphabet, Comcast and AT&T  exited the race, The Wall Street  Journal reported on Sunday.   Follow CNBC International on Twitter and Facebook. 