  Oil's bounce over the past few sessions could be a sign of future  gains.    Crude traded slightly lower Tuesday afternoon at $42.71 a barrel, following a  substantial bounce on Monday on news that members of the  Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries planned to hold  informal talks in September.   Even if the oil heavies don't elect to freeze supply, some  analysts believe this is still the right time to bet on  oil.   "I think it's a great buy," at these levels, Tim Seymour,  managing partner at Triogem Asset Management, said Monday on CNBC's  "Trading Nation."  "We've obviously bounced 8 percent off these lows. Sentiment  was extremely strong, people have been staring at the rig counts;  I don't think it's a lagging indicator; ultimately we are in a  place here, you heard the comments from OPEC — they actually  think the market's correcting itself," Seymour said.  The organization, which includes Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Nigeria and Venezuela, last met in Doha,  Qatar, in April, when it failed to agree on halting output amid  sagging crude prices. The lack of agreement sent crude prices  plummeting more than 6 percent.  Ari Wald, technical analyst at Oppenheimer, agrees that the  charts suggest oil prices will stay afloat.  "In fact, you're really having your most significant buy signal  since oil started its decline back in June, and that buy signal  was a key reversal last week," Wald said Monday on "Trading Nation,"   pointing to a chart of crude trading below support at its 200-day  moving average.    "Bears had all the reasons to really press the sell buttons there;  they couldn't do it, bulls came back, you had a strong rally into  the close there. I think that's marking an exhaustion of selling  pressures. I think it's marking a turning point," said Wald. He said he believes this "turning point" sets up a potential  springboard to higher levels, particularly around the $51  resistance mark.  "I think oil is very interesting as a buy here, especially  because sentiment, remember, last week was about as low as it's been" since  the commodity's recent lows, Seymour said.