 Those anticipating a recovery in oil prices after the  recent bludgeoning are likely to be disappointed. According to a  senior analyst, prices are likely to sink further from the  12-year trough reached this week.    "It certainly isn't (the bottom for oil)," said John Kingston,  President and Director of Global Market Insights at McGraw Hill Financial  Global Market Insights.  Clues for the future direction of oil prices could be gleaned  from futures contracts. While front-month March WTI and European Brent crude contracts are  around $28 a barrel--the WTI contract had slumped to as low as  $26.19 on Wednesday, the lowest level since May 2003--but the  sharp decline in the prices of front-month benchmark contracts  over the last 19 months has caused oil contracts to go into  contango.  Contango refers to a market phenomenon in which the  front-month or near-term futures contracts are trading  less than or at a discount to longer-dated futures contracts.  This indicates ample supply for the immediate future.Noting that the spread between the front and forward months has  widened, Kingston said this points to more pain ahead  but "at a certain point it gets so wide that maybe you've reached  the bottom."  Benchmark crude oil futures prices have fallen 70 percent since  the summer of 2014 due to an energy supply surplus and as OPEC stands back from cutting its 30-million-barrel-a-day production  ceiling.  OPEC kingpin Saudi Arabia  has been holding out on cutting  production as it sticks to its strategy of squeezing out higher cost energy producers, such as shale companies,  out of the market.  Kingston said U.S. production is down but the rate of decline has  slowed.  Despite the bearish bear market, OPEC is unlikely to call for an  emergency meeting, said Kingston.  "If it hasn't happened by now, it's not going to happen. The  people who are calling  for a meeting are the  same ones who call for a meeting all the time. It's not going to  happen."  With prices on an extended decline, ever increasing lower crude  oil forecasts have been put forth, with Standard  Chartered forecasting oil prices at $10 a barrel.  Some oil grades are already trading far below $28 a barrel.  On the physical market, Koch Brothers' Flint Hills Resources  offered to pay just $1.50 for North Dakota Sour, a low quality  grade of crude last Friday, Bloomberg reported, underscoring dire  oil market conditions in the U.S.  Follow CNBC International on Twitter and Facebook.