  U.S crude settled up more than 21 percent above a multi-year closing low hit last week as Russia said it was discussing the  possibility of co-operation with OPEC, fanning hopes that a deal  was in the works to reduce oversupply that sent prices the lowest  levels in a dozen years.  Oil futures briefly pared gains, falling in tandem with stock  markets after the Federal Reserve left interest rates unchanged  on Wednesday, but recovered heading into U.S. crude's  settle.   The Fed's policymaking committee said it was monitoring  heightened market volatility, but noted that labor conditions are  improving, asserted inflation will tick up, and reiterated its  belief that the energy price plunge is "transitory." Brent  crude rose $1.34 to $33.14 a barrel by 2:36 p.m. ET,  having hit a session high of $33.49. U.S. crude  futures settled up 85 cents at $32.30 a barrel, off a  session peak of $32.84.   Russia's energy ministry said possible coordination with the  Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) was  discussed at a meeting with Russian oil companies on  Wednesday.  Top non-OPEC producer, Russia has in the past been unwilling to  cut oil output, as it battles for market share with OPEC king-pin  Saudi Arabia.  "I remain skeptical, at the end of the day, about that happening  as the oil producers are looking at the other guy to cut  production while maintaining their own levels," Andrew Lipow of  Lipow Oil Associates said.  "I think the geopolitical factors in the Middle East are playing  a bigger part in the actual oil production than the statements  from energy ministers who'd like to see higher prices."  Hints of a possible deal between OPEC members and rival producers  had already helped oil rally 4 percent on Tuesday.  Crude was looking firm before the Russia news on the back of a  U.S. Energy Department report showing a surprise spike in demand  for refined products like heating oil last week, when a massive  blizzard hit the U.S. Northeast.  Heating oil futures rose 6 percent, boosted in part by forecasts  for more cold weather later this week.  Data from the U.S. Energy Information Administration showed  inventories of distillates such as heating oil fell by more than  4 million barrels, trumping expectations for a rise of nearly 2  million.  "The draw in distillate stocks is bullish, but we know there was  cold weather in the United States in the last week, so I would  say the reason behind the draw has something to do with the cold  winter weather and, as such, the impact should be short-lived,"  Tamas Varga of PVM Oil Associates said.  The data also showed U.S. crude oil stocks hit their highest on  record in the latest week, due largely to increases on the U.S.  Gulf Coast, a major oil hub.  The Energy Information Administration reported crude inventories  rose by 8.4 million barrels in the week through Jan. 22, bringing  the total in storage to 494.9 million barrels, the highest on  record.  That inventory surge helped fuel the rally instead of fanning  worries about excess supply, amid relief it fell short of an 11.5  million-barrel build reported by the American Petroleum Institute  late Tuesday.  "I think we're in this mode where little things can set the  market off into a reversal," Energy Management Institute analyst  Dominick Chirichella said. "We're heading into a choppy trading  period right now"  Oil prices have fallen nearly 16 percent in January, bringing  total losses since the start of the decline in mid-2014 to 77  percent.  That said, oil bulls are gradually starting to emerge, with this  month's drop below $30.   The options market shows traders are buying up protection against  a rise to at least $40 by the end of the year, and speculators  have increased their bullish bets on the price through the  futures market.   Three U.S. shale oil companies have slashed their 2016 capital  spending plans more than expected in a bid to survive the  $30-a-barrel oil price.  Marco Dunand, the head of Mercuria, one of the world's biggest  trading houses, said the market was close to rebalancing. Famed  oil bull Andrew Hall, head of Astenbeck Commodities, said the  market was ripe for a jump.  —CNBC's Tom DiChristopher contributed to this  report.