Oil prices may have risen since the start of the month, but  analysts believe the lackluster outlook for global demand –  amid a shaky global growth environment and stubborn oversupply -  should be more of a concern for investors.  "One consideration (in the near-term) that we think is going to  be more relevant is on the demand side, rather than supply," Marc  Kofler, research analyst at Jefferies, told CNBC Monday.  "We are coming into what we expect to be a heavy refinery  maintenance season in the OECD (Organization for Economic  Co-operation and Development) and we would expect that to limit  the amount of crude oil that you're seeing being bought by these  refineries and that could actually have some near-term negative  momentum around the oil price," he added.  Prices have risen more than 10 percent since the start of the  month as speculation has mounted about potential action by oil  producer group OPEC when it meets on the sidelines of an energy  conference in Algeria next month.   Prices rose by around 2 percent on Monday, with Brent crude  futures trading at around $47.95 a barrel and U.S. West Texas  Intermediate (WTI) at $45.40 a barrel when European stock markets closed. An extra fillip came  after Russian Energy Minister Alexander Novak said he was  consulting with Saudi Arabia and other countries to "achieve oil  market stability," according to comments from the Asharq Al-Awsat  newspaper, reported by Reuters.   Still, there are plenty of reasons to be cautious with the  International Energy Agency (IEA) revising its global oil demand  growth forecasts for 2017 downwards last week amid an uncertain  global growth outlook with mixed signals from the likes of China  and the U.S.   In addition, comments about potential OPEC/non-OPEC cooperation  over market stability have been made in the past to no effect and  analysts are again skeptical that OPEC's informal meeting next  month will produce any concrete action - given that the group  remains wary of conceding market share amid signs of more output  coming online from non-OPEC producers.    Recent data show that the U.S. rig count and crude oil  inventories are rising – signaling that the nascent rebound  in oil prices is encouraging producers to re-open rigs and that  production is still outpacing demand.  Kopler noted that  "inventories are still going up, less so on the crude side but  more so on the product side."  "We think there is a certain amount now of floating product  off-shore in Europe, so it's still very much a well-supplied  market and we imagine that will continue until the year-end," he  added.Kopler was also skeptical about the forthcoming OPEC meeting:  "It's always very difficult when it comes to talking about OPEC  and in the past, the precedent has always been for a lot of  expectations then perhaps the reality being someway below that,"  he said.  "We're expecting to be reasonably sanguine around that event,  principally because we still hear rhetoric around coordinated  action between OPEC and non-OPEC and that feels someway off for  us. Secondly, even if there is a production freeze, at current  levels recently we've had Saudi, UAE (United Arab Emirates),  Kuwait all producing at record levels and so we question how  effective any freeze may be," he added.  He was not alone in his reticence with Michael Wittner, head of  oil market research at Societe Generale, also saying in a note  Monday that "we are skeptical that anything concrete will happen"  at the OPEC meet.   "Similar to April, a freeze would only be a boost to market  sentiment" but would not change the remaining imbalance in global  oil supply and demand, he said.    "Russia, Iraq, and Iran are maxed out (in terms of production) or  are close to it, and Saudi output will go down anyway after the  summer peak. So a freeze would not have any impact on actual  crude supply," he added.  The French bank's forecast for demand also trended towards the  bearish side, rather than the bullish side of the spectrum.   It said the global economic outlook, seasonal declines in demand,  the revision downwards of global demand growth forecasts by the  IEA last week and weak refining runs and margins were all reasons  to err on the side of caution in terms of the oil demand outlook.