  Already weak oil prices extended declines on Monday, nearing $30  a barrel, as a stronger dollar and jitters over  volatile Chinese markets weighed on sentiment.   At 12:20 p.m. ET on Tuesday, WTI crude oil futures for February traded at  around $30.20 per barrel. Brent crude oil futures traded at around  $30.55/bbl.   Oil markets are fixated on Chinese demand, as well as the  stronger greenback, said Mizuho Bank's economist Vishnu  Varathan.   China's apparent oil and gas consumption is expected to rise 4.8  percent this year to about 750 million tons of oil equivalent,  according to a China Petroleum and Chemical Industry Federation  estimate on Tuesday.  A supply glut, coupled with weak demand, have been the main  factors behind oil's plunge since mid-2014, amid the rise of U.S.  shale producers and the refusal by OPEC to shut off the spigots.  "OPEC is producing flat-out into a market that is oversupplied by  over 1 million barrels per day," Jason Gammel and Marc Kofler,  two analysts at Jefferies said in a note Tuesday.  "Already decelerating demand growth could further decay with  slowing economic activity," they added. The investment bank  lowered its Brent oil price assumptions to $43 a barrel from $61  a barrel for 2016 and said it was difficult to envisage a  "fundamentally bullish scenario" this year.  Oil prices are now about 17 percent lower year-to-date, just 12  days into 2016, and about 70 percent lower from July 2014 when  prices began their sustained decline.   According to data from the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission,  managed short positions of WTI crude on January 5 increased  almost 10 percent from a week ago to 182,562 — a record high  for the measure, which implies hedge fund expectations of further  decline.   The increase in bearishness from funds signals that they are  moving money out of crude oil, Singapore-based Phillip Futures  analyst Daniel Ang said.  Short positions held by oil producers, however, are falling to a  level that suggest there could be more cuts to production, as  they start to feel the pinch of low prices, he added in a note  Tuesday.  Some analysts said at the close of 2015 that they expected  further pain in oil markets in the first half of 2016, although  some rebalancing may occur in the later part of the year as  supply slows due to the low prices.   Analysts at Barclays, Macquarie, Bank of America Merrill Lynch,  Standard Chartered and Societe Generale all cut their 2016 oil  price forecasts on Monday. The latter predicts Brent and WTI  will average $42.50 and $40.50, respectively, in 2016, and  highlighted that oversupply would last longer than previously  thought.   Meanwhile, StanChart took the most negative view.  "We think prices could fall as low as $10/bbl before most of the  money managers in the market conceded that matters had gone too  far," StanChart wrote.  But the current rig count implied that U.S. oil production would  decline on-year in 2016, Goldman Sachs forecast in a note on  Monday.   U.S. oil rig count — commonly used as an indication of  drilling activity and thus future production levels —  drooped by 20 to 516 in the weekend ending Jan. 8, the steepest  decline in two months.  Craig McMahon, APAC head of research at Wood MacKenzie, said on  Tuesday that markets continued to be oversupplied by 1.5 million  barrels of oil a day, although a drop in output was in sight for  the second half, with non-OPEC production likely falling by  600,000 barrels a day. Half of impending the cuts will come from  the U.S. producers, he said.  "We are expecting to see a recovery, but the key thing about that  recovery is it will not be not immediate. The key thing to note  is that production is falling."  — CNBC's Katy Barnato and Reuters contributed to this  report. 