  Oil prices rose on Monday, extending a rally triggered last week  by speculation that OPEC might agree to cut production to reduce   a supply glut that has pushed prices to the lowest in over  a decade.  Brent crude futures, the global  benchmark, were up 46 cents at $33.82 a barrel at 1232  GMT. U.S. futures traded at $30.02 a  barrel, up 58 cents on Friday's close. Trade is likely to be  thinner than usual on Monday due to the U.S. Presidents Day  holiday.   "Some traders still think about the chances of an OPEC plus  Russia (production) cut and close their short positions," said  Frank Klumpp, oil analyst at Stuttgart-based Landesbank  Baden-Wuerttemberg.   The United Arab Emirates' energy minister said the Organization  of the Petroleum Exporting Countries was willing to cooperate on  an output cut, the Wall Street Journal reported last week.   And Nigeria's oil minister told Reuters the mood inside OPEC was  shifting to a growing consensus that a decision must be reached  on how to prop up prices.    Non-OPEC member Russia said on Monday it wanted to see improved  relations between Iran and Saudi Arabia at a time when joint  action is needed to influence global oil prices, according to the  RIA news agency.   "The fact that the market has reacted so strongly certainly  indicates that these comments are being taken seriously," said  analysts at Frankfurt-based Commerzbank.   However, many analysts, including the International Energy  Agency, are still skeptical OPEC will cut a deal with other  producers to reign in ballooning output.  "We continue to believe that if prices were to be artificially  supported with production cuts it would only give more expensive  forms of production more room to breathe and would only solve the  problem in the short term," Phillip Futures said in a note.  Iran is exporting 1.3 million barrels per day (bpd) of crude oil,  and will be pumping 1.5 million bpd by the start of the next  Iranian year on March 20, a vice-president was quoted as saying  on Saturday.  Iran will load 4 million barrels of crude oil on tankers destined  for Europe in the coming 24 hours, a senior official was quoted  as saying.   Ben van Beurden, chief executive of oil major Shell, said on  Monday volatility in oil prices may stabilize later this year and  that prices could rebound after that.