  Oil prices edged lower on Friday on doubts about OPEC's planned output  cut. Organization of the  Petroleum Exporting Countries experts and counterparts  from non-member producers such as Russia started two-day  negotiations on Friday on limiting output to curb a global glut  that has weighed on markets for two years.  As of late Friday in Vienna, officials had have yet to agree  details of a plan to cut oil output and Iran is opposing such a  move, OPEC sources said on Friday.Dow Jones reported the technical meeting was deadlocked as Iran and Iraq disputed the data, with Iran saying OPEC underestimates its production. Earlier this week, Iraq said it wanted to be exempt from production cuts because it needs oil revenue to carry out a military campaign against Islamic State militants. Baghdad has also quibbled over how OPEC calculates its crude production.  U.S. West Texas Intermediate crude settled down 91  cents, or 2.05 percent, at $48.70 a barrel. WTI was fell 4.2  percent on the week for its biggest weekly loss since  mid-September.  The close below $49 is a bearish signal because it means the $49  to $52 range supported by OPEC talks has been broken, John  Kilduff, founding partner at Again Capital told CNBC. It could  now fall to a support level of $46.40, he said. Brent crude futures were down 69 cents, or 1.4  percent, at $49.78 a barrel by 2:44 p.m. ET (1844 GMT), on pace  for a weekly decline of nearly 4 percent.  Russia expects a quick recovery in U.S. shale oil production so  that an output freeze could be short-lived, Interfax news agency  reported, citing the Russian energy ministry.  Russia will organize a gathering of domestic oil producers a week  before the OPEC meeting, industry sources said.  A source close to one of the companies said the meeting had been  postponed from Nov. 9 after discussions involving Igor Sechin,  who heads Russian state producer Rosneft and is known for his  anti-OPEC stance.  Commerzbank analysts said the success of an output deal would  depend on whether Gulf producers Saudi Arabia, the United Arab  Emirates, Kuwait and Qatar are willing to cut on their own if no  agreement can be reached with others.  The number of oil rigs operating in U.S. oil fields dropped for  the first time since June, oil services company Baker Hughes  reported Friday. The oil rig count fell by 2 to 441.  Baker Hughes has reported steady rig rates or additions for 17  weeks.  Prices rose as much as 13 percent after Sept. 27, when OPEC  announced its first planned output reduction in eight years. The  cartel is expected to meet on Nov. 30 to hash out how much each  individual member should cut.  "Clearly the prices for crude oil have risen high enough that a  lot of producers, shale producers, did put on hedges," said David  Thompson, executive vice president of Washington commodities  broker Powerhouse.  French oil company Total SA said on Friday it expected prices to  remain volatile and continued to reduce costs, while Italy's ENI  SpA reported a larger-than-expected quarterly loss.  However, U.S. companies Exxon Mobil Corp and Chevron were able to  beat expectations because of cost cuts. —  Tom DiChristopher contributed to this  story.