  When it comes to the word of OPEC, Dennis  Gartman is urging investors to question everything coming out of  the cartel.   "If I've learned anything in 40 years, it's that OPEC cheats. Every one of the members cheat. They cheat on themselves. They  cheat on each other. It is extraordinary. To think otherwise is  naive," the so-called commodities king said Tuesday on CNBC's "Futures Now" when  discussing expectations that OPEC will not arrive at a deal for a production  freeze. For context, the cartel indicated in September that the  framework for a deal had been agreed upon. Then OPEC member Saudi  Arabia issued $17.5 billion worth of bonds in October. The editor and publisher of "The  Gartman Letter doubled-down on his bearish thesis calling for  oil to head lower from current levels. Now, when seeking an  honest indicator in the global market, Gartman recommended  looking outside of OPEC toward Russia.   "The only fellow speaking the truth about crude oil was [Igor]  Sechin," explained Gartman. Sechin, CEO of Rosneft, an oil company majority owned by the Russian government, recently expressed  a desire to increase production. "When everybody else was saying  that they were going to curtail production, Sechin said, 'Why  should I?'"  Gartman noted that, despite OPEC's tough talk, the cartel's hand  was forced when Rosneft indicated intent to produce heavily, not  scale back. Russia's conviction, coupled with cartel discord has Gartman looking toward a potential breakdown for  crude heading into winter.   "You probably have to take WTI down now to $40," warned Gartman.  "You need to take it down there to stop ... production facilities  here and to stop people from bringing on old wells that had been  drilled and capped. At $40, they'll probably stay  capped."   This notion comes alongside a note from Goldman Sachs wherein the  bank agrees that further infighting among OPEC members could  drive the price of oil to $40 per barrel.   "I think we take crude down into the low 40s, which is a break  in trend lines as the cantango continues to widen," concluded  Gartman. "If I can tell people to do anything it's watch the term  structure and watch the contango because it tells you more than  anything. As the market was rallying a week and a half ago, crude  was bidding for storage and the contango was widening. That told  you that the peak was in. For right now, demand is weak, supply  is large and oil prices want to go down."OPEC did not immediately respond to a request for comment.