 The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting  Countries (OPEC) on Wednesday  agreed to  its first oil production limits in eight  years, triggering an oil rally, but market  watchers were questioning whether the oil  group will cheat. "The key to all of this is really is whether these cuts  will be implemented. That is the big question,"said Matt Smith,  ClipperData's director of commodity research from  Kentucky. On Wednesday,all 14 member  countries reached a deal to curtail oil production for the first  time since 2008, the oil-producing cartel announced from its  headquarters in Vienna. OPEC ministers confirmed it had secured a  cut in its oil production from 33.8 million barrels a day to 32.5  million barrels a day in an effort to prop up prices. Oil prices  have fallen by more than half since mid-2014 due to global  oversupply and booming U.S. shale  production.  OPEC's announcement sent crude oil prices  soaring over 10 percent on Wednesday to over month highs over $50  a barrel. Crude oil prices gave up some of the gains on Thursday morning in Asia with U.S. West Texas Intermediate down 0.6 percent at $49.16 a barrel and European Brent down at 0.4 percent lower at $51.65 a barrel at 9.35am HKT/SIN time. Kuwait, Venezuela and Algeria all agreed to monitor  compliance of the OPEC agreement, according to a Reuters  report. But there are no penalties  for non-compliance and members have a poor track  record of adhering  to previous production  quotas. Smith wasn't alone in  skepticism over whether the deal was more than a piece of  paper.  "Experience teaches us that many people  will be skeptical about compliance and with probably good reason to be so," said Head of APAC Research at Wood Mackenzie,  Craig McMahon in Singapore. Under the deal, OPEC's de facto  leader, Saudi Arabia, will take the lion's  share of cuts by reducing output by almost 500,000 barrels  a day to 10.06 million barrels a day. Its Gulf OPEC allies -  the United Arab Emirates, Kuwait and Qatar - would cut by a  total 300,000 barrels  a day. Iraq, which had insisted on higher output  quotas to fund its fight against Islamic State militants,  unexpectedly agreed to reduce production  by 200,000 barrels a  day. Some producers like Saudi Arabia committed to supporting prices will likely abide by the new  rules, but other countries may be less motivated, Smith told  CNBC's "The Rundown" on  Thursday.  Even if OPEC stands by its cuts,  oil producers outside the organization may not turn off their  taps. Higher crude oil prices will  also feed a vicious cycle of higher prices feeding higher  production, particularly from low-cost U.S. shale oil  producers.The sharp oil-price rally  may well be short-lived, as oil production was turning the corner in the  U.S., with the rig count up 50 percent from lows in  May, Smith said. But Wood  Mackenzie's McMahon said crude oil prices will need to stay  sustainably above $55 a barrel to trigger a significant increase  in U.S. shale production. Market watchers were now keeping  their eyes on a non-OPEC meeting next week to see if Russia will  also play ball. OPEC has said it is seeking to secure  600,000 barrels per day of cuts from non-OPEC producers, and that  Russia has committed to temporarily cut production by about  300,000 barrels per day.Reuters contributed to this article.  Follow CNBC International on Twitter and Facebook.