 Donald Trump's victory in the recent U.S. presidential  election is likely to spur OPEC into action at  its policy meeting next week,analysts said Monday.  "The Trump victory and significant downward pressure on the  oil price over the last couple of weeks will draw OPEC  back together," said UBS' commodities and FX strategist, Wayne  Gordon. Dollar-denominated crude oil prices have been under  pressure since Trump's win pushed up the greenback amid talk of  infighting within the oil group. As major oil benchmarks are  priced in dollars, a stronger greenback typically makes it more  expensive to buy oil.  U.S. crude oil futures fell as much as 4 percent immediately following  Trump's surprise win to a two-month low near $43 a barrel. They have moved in the  $43-$46 a barrel range since then, down from around $50 a barrel  for much of October. U.S. West Texas Intermediate was up 1.3 percent to trade  around $46.27 a barrel on Monday afternoon in Asia while European  Brent was also up 1.4 percent at $47.50 a barrel. OPEC members agreed at a September  meeting in Algiers that they would work on an agreement  to cut production to between 32.5 and 33 million barrels a  day. The group produced more than 33.6 million barrels a  day in October. They left the details of how the cuts would be shared for  the Nov. 30 meeting of OPEC oil ministers.  While there has been skepticism over whether  OPEC will finally come to an agreement at its meeting in Vienna  this week, watchers say the group may deal for real  this time. "We think they'll come up with some agreement …This  time round, we think the impetus to doing a deal is much stronger," said  Gordon.  This is particularly as President-elect Trump has threatened  during the presidential campaign to rip up the deal Iran reached  with international negotiators last year to limit its nuclear  program in exchange for sanctions relief.Although Trump is unlikely to significantly change it  without European cooperation, his rhetoric could potentially slow  investment going into Iran, a large OPEC oil producer. This could  lift oil prices significantly in the next 12 to 18 months, Gordon  said. Standard Chartered's chief investment strategist Steve Brice  also expects an OPEC deal that will push the world into a  sustained supply deficit, boosting oil prices.  Brice expects oil to rise 30 to 40 percent to $60 to $65 a  barrel toward end-2017 if the dollar doesn't rise  dramatically.  Follow CNBC International on Twitter and Facebook.