 U.S.  stock-index futures signaled a lower start to trade on  Wall Street on Thursday, as European and some Asian shares rose  after an accord was struck among OPEC members. The 14-country OPEC oil cartel agreed to seek a cut in  crude production when they meet formally in November — paving  the way for the first cut in oil supply since 2008. The  consequent rally in oil prices saw U.S. stock indexes close  higher on Wednesday, with the Dow up triple digits.  Crude oil futures rose nearly 6 percent on  Wednesday on news of the deal, but pared some gains on Thursday  as investors grew skeptical about the details of the agreement  and how it will be enforced.    "There are the usual unanswered questions about  implementation, not least regarding how the output cuts will be  divvied up among members; how Iran, Nigeria and Libya might be  given greater leeway to increase production without jeopardizing  the deal as a whole; and how non-members such as Russia, Mexico,  North American shale producers and others will respond," Emily  Nicol, economist at Daiwa Capital Markets, said in a note on  Thursday. On the earnings front, Costco is set to post  results after Wall Street closes. PepsiCo shares rose more than 3 percent in the premarket after reporting better-than-expected quarterly sales. ConAgra also posted results, and its stock rose 2 percent. Accenture shares also rose after the firm posted results.  Stocks to watch on Thursday include Wal-Mart, which is in talks  to buy a stake in Indian online retailer Flipkart,  according to media reports.   Meanwhile, Apple shares fell more than half a percent in  premarket trading after Barclays removed its "Top Pick"  designation from the tech giant's stock and lowered its price  target to $114 from $115. "Our research indicates a recovery  in global smartphone growth could be pushed out. Plus,  conversations with industry participants suggest iPhone sales  trends could be at risk of petering out in coming months, similar  to last year's post-IP6S launch fall-out," Barclays analysts said.  Data-wise, the third read on second-quarter GDP beat estimates, while weekly jobless claims rose less than expected. Pending home sales for August are due at 10 a.m. ET.  U.S. Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen will speak in Kansas City  at 4 p.m. ET at a forum on banking and the economy. Before that,  Fed Governor Jerome Powell will speak in St. Louis about trends  in community bank performance.   Plus, the U.S. Presidential race will be in focus, following  media speculation that a company owned by Republican  candidate, Donald Trump, violated the Cuban trade  embargo in the 1990s.   Follow CNBC International on Twitter and Facebook.