  The Organization of the Oil Exporting Countries  significantly reduced its outlook for crude prices in the next few  years in its annual World Oil Outlook published Tuesday.  The 14-member oil producer group now assumes its OPEC reference  basket price will reach $60 a barrel by 2020. Last year, OPEC's  oil price assumption was $80 a barrel in 2020.  In both years, OPEC saw prices rising by $5 a year, but it is  starting from an average price of $40 a barrel for the reference  basket in 2016, compared with a $55 a barrel average in  2015.  The OPEC reference basket is made up of a number of crude oil  products from member states and is typically lower than the  international and U.S. benchmarks by a slight margin. The  reference basket price fell to a 2016 low of $22.48 in January,  while  sank to a multiyear low of $27.10 the same month. West Texas Intermediate bottomed out at $26.05 in February.  OPEC notes the outlook is not necessarily a forecast or desired  price path, but an assumption it uses to guide its reference  case.In light of the decline in investment over the past two years,  the industry needs to ask whether low oil prices have put the  future supply-demand outlook at risk, OPEC Secretary-General  Mohammed Barkindo warned in a foreward to the report.  "While the recent oil market environment has been one of  oversupply, it is vital that the industry ensures that a lack of  investments today does not lead to a shortage of supply in the  future," he said.  In OPEC's 10th WOO edition, the group cites numerous  uncertainties ahead when projecting how oil is likely to perform  through to 2040, though it does anticipate the commodity is to  remain the fuel with the largest market share for most of this  period.   The oil market needs to be stable in order to prevent economic  hardship, OPEC said in its latest WOO report, while  investors eagerly await the outcome of the organization's meeting scheduled for Nov. 30.  OPEC members pledged at their last meeting in Algiers to cut oil  production by as much as 2 percent. The latest WOO report will be  scoured for clues as to whether or not the group will stick to its promise.  Critics have raised questions as to just how likely it is the  cartel will indeed seek to curb output at its November meeting as the details of how much it will cut oil production by,  and which countries will act, remain absent.   Oil prices recorded a weekly percentage decline last week not  seen since January, with Brent crude hitting $45.08 and WTI  slumping to $43.57.  However, on Monday, oil prices were seen to rebound after OPEC underlined the group's intention to reach an output deal at this month's gathering.  When it comes to supply, the OPEC report predicts non-OPEC supply  to initially fall in the coming year before increasing up until  2021. "It all means that OPEC will be required to meet most of the  additional long-term oil demand," the report's foreword  said.   "In terms of crude, it is expected that OPEC will have to supply  an additional 8.9 mb/d (million barrels a day) between 2015 and  2040."  Not everyone is convinced that OPEC will seek to tackle  oversupply by cutting production on Nov. 30 as David Hufton,  managing director of PVM Oil Associates, told Reuters, "Market  belief that OPEC can reach a credible deal has collapsed and  prices are now $8 a barrel off the post-Algiers highs."  "The numbers show that the best deal OPEC are likely to come up  with is well short of what is needed to achieve a balanced market  in 2017," he added.  Perhaps the most notable challenge for OPEC comes in the shape of  the Paris COP21 agreement. The historic climate change deal  adopted by almost 200 countries last December came into effect Friday.  The WOO reports that renewable energy sources as well as nuclear  energy will increase in market share regardless of how quickly  the COP21's objectives are achieved and this would partially  offset the loss in demand for fossil fuels.  OPEC concludes the report by indicating that given the countless  uncertainties that the organization is likely to face, it is  imperative that it continues to participate in international  dialogue.