  If oil prices are going to rebound, a few countries that have  spent two years trying to edge each other out of crude markets will have to learn to cooperate.Members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries have suffered serious economic pain as oil prices have languished over the last two years. But OPEC's largest producers —Saudi  Arabia, Iraq and Iran — as well as nonmember Russia — have all pumped their way through the rout, seeking to  capture more business to offset the falling value of their  lifeblood product.  Their prolific pumping has pushed OPEC's production to all-time  highs ahead of a meeting next week, where Saudi Arabia will try to  impose output limits on the group's member countries. The record  output has some analysts questioning whether OPEC can cut deeply  enough to balance an oversupplied global market — especially given  its members' poor history of sticking to quotas.  Many observers see OPEC's ability to deliver a serious deal as a referendum on the group's continuing relevance. That  test comes at a time of profound change in the Middle East.  In Saudi Arabia, an ambitious young prince is spearheading the  kingdom's efforts to diversify its economy by selling off a share  of the state oil giant Saudi Aramco in order to create a $2 trillion  investment fund. Many OPEC watchers believe that creates an  incentive to boost oil prices so that Saudi Aramco's IPO looks  more attractive.  Meanwhile, Iran is rebuilding its foreign oil trade after  international powers lifted sanctions on Tehran in January, and  Iraq is fighting to oust Islamic State militants from their  Iraqi stronghold in Mosul. Keeping oil revenue flowing is central  to those endeavors. It's little surprise, then, that all three countries have been grabbing for more foreign business with both hands.Iraq's October crude oil exports grew 15.1 percent from a  year ago, while Saudi Arabia's jumped 6.8 percent. In the same period, tanker loadings from Iran have more than doubled, according to data from tanker-tracking firm ClipperData.  Tehran has made inroads in particular with India, which will be the largest driver of crude oil demand  growth in the coming decades, according to the International  Energy Agency. In October, Iran overtook Saudi Arabia as  India's top supplier of crude oil.   "They're clawing some of that market share from others, but  they're also helping to fill that gap of increasing demand," said  Matt Smith, director of commodity research at ClipperData.India purchased much of Iran's  crude oil before the international community imposed sanctions on  Tehran over its nuclear program. Iran is now winning back that  business, in no small part because its crude is well-suited to  India's refineries, according to John Kilduff, founding partner  at investment management firm Again Capital.  Reading the data out of China is more difficult, because Beijing  sources its massive crude imports from a wider array of  oil-producing nations. But as erratic as the data are, they tell  an important tale about the nature of the global  crude markets today.  The first part of that story boils down to China's ability to  dictate pricing. A country's crude exports may swing widely  from month to month in part because China is able to shop around  for the best price. ClipperData's figures for the last two years  illustrate this:  Here, the big three OPEC players have to undercut not just one  another, but Latin American and West African players, as well. In  a price downturn where oil producers are scrambling for business,  that works in China's favor.  "You think that prices dictate flows, but when it comes to China,  it's such a large part of the market, it's the other way around.  Their demand dictates prices," Smith said.  Historically, the Saudis primarily pursued long-term contracts,  but they have recently been playing the spot market, selling from  month to month to try to capture some of China's short-term demand, Kilduff said.  "They're getting sharper elbows," he said. "This price crash has  really changed the landscape in so many ways."  Competition has only heated up since Russia pivoted to  China and boosted trade ties with Beijing after the European  Union and United States slapped the Kremlin with sanctions over  its meddling in Ukraine and annexation of Crimea. But while it's carving out more share in China, Russia's dominance in the shrinking European Union market for crude oil is being challenged by Iran. Tehran has quickly ramped up its exports to the EU, and Moscow must now also contend with Libyan oil after the war-wracked nation resumed exports from key ports this year.  OPEC's surprise shift to a hands-off approach in November 2014  — it previously cut output to boost prices — worsened  the downturn and forced high-cost producers such as U.S.  shale drillers to turn off the tap.  But in a sign that the group's strategy is coming full circle, Nigeria  has made some room for fellow OPEC producers in Europe by increasing shipments of oil to the United States, where production fell along with oil prices after OPEC refused in 2014 to cut output."The  lifting of the U.S. export ban meant that WTI [crude oil] came back in line with other global  benchmarks. Combine this with falling production from Bakken  [shale formation], and it became more economical for U.S. East  Coast refiners to import Nigerian crude rather than domestic  crude by rail economics," Smith said.