  The concessions offered by Saudi Arabia in its bid to lock down a  deal to limit the globe's oil supply show the world's largest  crude exporter is getting pinched by its own policy, Again  Capital founding partner John Kilduff said Wednesday.  Sources told Reuters that OPEC hammered out a deal on Wednesday to  reduce the cartel's production to 32.5 million barrels per day  from around 33.24 million, with output levels for each member to be determined in November.The Saudis decided in November 2014 to allow an oversupplied oil  market to balance on its own, rather than coordinating an oil  output cut among OPEC members. The policy was designed to  reduce supply by washing out high-cost producers — such as U.S.  shale drillers — but the strategy has also piled pressure on Riyadh.  Saudi Arabia's foreign exchange reserves have fallen 20 percent  over the last two years, to $587 billion through March, the last  month for which IMF data were available. On Monday, the kingdom  said it would cut ministers' pay by 20 percent and pare perks for public sector employees, who make up two-thirds of the country's workforce, Reuters reported.  The move to squeeze public employees came ahead of an informal gathering of OPEC members and  other producers at a previously scheduled meeting in Algeria to  discuss a plan to stabilize oil prices, which remain nearly 60  percent below their 2014 peak.   "The big takeaway is how into a corner the Saudis have backed  themselves. This whole plan has backfired on them. They're going  to be bearing most of the cutback if they pull it off, and they've  had to really kowtow to the Iranians in this whole thing,"  Kilduff told CNBC's "Power Lunch."   In April, OPEC members and Russia met in Doha, Qatar, to hammer out a  deal to freeze production at January levels. But Saudi Arabia  scuttled that plan when its regional rival, Iran, refused to  participate.  Ahead of the meeting in Agiers, Saudi Arabia softened its stance, reportedly offering to cut its own production if Iran  agreed to freeze its current output at roughly 3.6 million  barrels a day.   On Tuesday, the kingdom became even more accommodating. Saudi  Energy Minister Khalid al-Falih said Iran, along with Libya and  Nigeria, could be allowed to pump "at maximum levels that make  sense," even as other producers limited production, Reuters  reported.   It was not immediately clear whether those terms would be agreed  to in November. Iran's oil output has reached 3.6 million barrels per day  after the lifting of international sanctions earlier this  year, but Tehran says it is targeting production of 4 million  barrels a day.  Nigeria and Libya are both seeking to increase production as they  make progress resolving domestic conflicts that have sidelined crude  supply.   On Tuesday, Mustafa Sanalla, the head of Libya's state-run  National Oil Corp., said the country's crude production had more  than doubled to 485,000 barrels a day after the reopening of  oil ports this month, Dow Jones reported.  Those gains, along with Russian plans to increase  production, show the market will continue to be swamped with  supply, Kilduff said.  Michael Cohen, head of energy commodities research at Barclays,  said Wednesday he believes the situations in Nigeria and Libya  are getting worse on balance. He told "Squawk on the Street" he  doesn't expect developments in those countries to provide  anything more than "fits and starts" for the oil market in the  next year.