  Speculator bets on higher  reached record highs in  April, OPEC said in a report on Friday, but the oil cartel warned  that fundamentally, oversupply still persisted in the  market.  Oil futures surged by more than 8 percent to above $40 per barrel  in April, as market sentiment turned more upbeat amid signs that  a persistent global supply glut may be easing, OPEC said.  It comes just a day after the International Energy Agency (IEA)  said global oil markets were heading towards a long-awaited  equilibrium.  OPEC left its 2016 world oil demand growth forecast unchanged at  1.20 million barrels per day.  All eyes are on the next move by OPEC when it meets on June 2. So  far, it has shown no signs of backing down from its decision in  November 2014 to produce at full-tilt in a bid to defend its  market share against non-OPEC rivals, particularly shale oil  producers in the U.S. Saudi Arabia's state-run oil company Saudi  Aramco indicated on Tuesday that that its production will trend  slightly higher this year.  The country drew attention to itself last weekend when a cabinet  reshuffle led to Saudi Oil Minister Ali-al-Naimi being replaced  by Khalid al-Falih, the former president of Saudi Aramco. The new  minister in charge of the Kingdom's oil policy signaled no  dramatic change in policy from the Saudis.  "Strong gasoline consumption in the United States, declining  production around the world and oilfield outages underpinned a  return to investment in the sector," OPEC said in its monthly  report on Friday.  "Not much has fundamentally changed as the oversupply remains and  global oil inventories are at record highs. But investors hope  strong demand, particularly for gasoline, ahead of the U.S.  driving season and weaker non-OPEC production will help work down  excess supply," it added.  It noted an increase in speculative positions betting on higher  prices which reinforced growing optimism that oil and other  commodities are back in fashion with institutional investors  after a year-long rout.  "By the end of April, money managers raised their bullish bets on  crude oil futures and options to fresh ten-month highs, as prices  rallied to their highest levels this year on hopes that stronger  demand will help deplete record stocks," OPEC said.  It added that speculator bets on higher Brent prices reached  record highs in April, their largest monthly advance in seven  years, according to exchange data from ICE (Intercontinental  Exchange) to the end of April. Follow CNBC International on Twitter and Facebook. 