  Oil futures sank to a fresh four-year low overnight as ministers  from the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC)  are set to meet Thursday with a group decision to cut production  output looking increasingly unlikely.  Brent crude futures fell to $76.26 per barrel early on Thursday  morning with U.S. crude futures extending declines to hover near  a four-year low below $76 a barrel. Trading in the latter could  be subdued in Thursday's session with markets closed for the U.S.  Thanksgiving Day holiday.   In Vienna, ministers are expected to come to a decision on  whether to cut OPEC's official quota of 30 million barrels a day.  Early speculation suggested that Saudi Arabia - the main swing  producer in the region - would call for a cut of up to 1.5  million barrels a day to help put a floor under prices which have  dipped 30 percent since the summer. Read MoreGulf OPEC producers agree not to cut  output: Rpt  However, among the media frenzy on Wednesday Saudi Arabian Oil  Minister Ali al-Naimi confirmed that OPEC's Gulf states had  already reached a consensus. Reuters reported, citing a Gulf OPEC  delegate, that this consensus would be to hold off on any  immediate drop in production.  Diezani Alison-Madueke, the Nigerian oil minister, remained coy  on whether anything had already been agreed, telling CNBC that  "anything is possible" ahead of the discussions.  "We have to decide among ourselves to see what is the best way  forward," she said.   The lack of agreement between the ministers was further  underlined as the meeting began at around 10:00 a.m London time.  Iranian Oil Minister Bijan Namdar Zanganeh told CNBC that he  thought it necessary to do something that has a "short-term  effect" on the market. Suhail bin Mohammed al-Mazroui, the  minister from the United Arab Emirates said the opposite, stating  that the country cared about "long-term stability" and was not  interested in "quick fixes."  Neil Atkinson, the head of analysis at Lloyd's List Intelligence,  told CNBC that he believes that OPEC will hold off on making any  snap decision at the current meeting. Read MoreOil prices lower as market braces for  OPEC meeting  "They will come back again in three months' time," he said on the  sidelines of the event. "By which time we'll see whether the low  oil price environment really is here to stay."  Global oil prices have plunged since peaking in June. From around  $115 a barrel, Brent crude has lost around a third of its price.  Weak demand, a strong dollar and booming U.S. oil production are  the three main reasons behind the fall, according to the  International Energy Agency (IEA), which warned of a "new  chapter" for oil markets, which could even affect the social  stability of some countries.  The drop in oil has weighed heavily on energy stocks but has  boosted some companies that are heavily reliant on the commodity,  like airlines. Read MoreOPEC needs to 'wake up' to shale  revolution   Atkinson predicted that oil will slide further in the coming  weeks but without any "massive downside." He added that Saudi  Arabia is right to be patient in making a decision and will use  the next three months to put further pressure on non-OPEC  producers - like Russia - to come to an agreement on production.  Alison-Madueke echoed this sentiment, telling CNBC  that in the future an agreement with non-OPEC countries  would be beneficial. "We will all have to reach out and sit across the  table," she said.  Johannes Benigni, the founder and managing director of  consultancy firm JBC Asia, believes that there would be a cut  agreed on Thursday and estimated that OPEC production could dip  to between 29 and 29.5 million barrels a day.  "It's a done deal that they will," he said, likening the fall  in oil price to a burning house. "The house is clearly  burning...the fire brigade is coming." 