  The Macquarie Group puts the chances of OPEC reaching a credible crude output agreement that boosts oil prices at 60 percent, but closely followed investor Dennis Gartman thinks those odds are too generous.  The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries may produce  a deal when it meets in Vienna on Nov. 30, but it's doubtful such  an accord would achieve its aim of bolstering oil prices  following a two-year downturn, The Gartman Letter's publisher told  CNBC's "Power Lunch" on Thursday.  Gartman ticked off a number of obstacles to putting a floor under  oil prices: The chief of Russian oil giant Rosneft continues to  insist it will increase output; Iran is intent on restoring  production following the lifting of sanctions this year and China's crude  demand appears to be moderating.  "I think it's going to be difficult even if they get an agreement  to put prices very much higher at all," Gartman said.  Sentiment surrounding an OPEC deal has dominated moves in crude  prices since top exporter Saudi Arabia announced the effort last  month. Futures came under pressure this week as Iraq said it  wanted to be exempt from production quotas.   On Thursday, U.S. West Texas  Intermediate crude prices snapped a three-day losing  streak after Saudi  Arabia and its Gulf allies told Russia they  were willing to reduce their output by 4 percent from recent  peaks. The Saudis are trying to convince non-OPEC producers like  Russia to limit pumping, too.  The OPEC output cut premium is entirely baked into crude prices  at this point, in Gartman's view.  "Maybe — maybe — we get spot WTI back to $52 again. I  think that will be difficult. Maybe we get , the official  international marker crude, to $54 again," he said, referencing  the benchmarks' 2016 highs struck earlier this month.  The problem is prices for oil one year out are still $4.50 to $5  above front-month prices, Gartman said. Higher forward prices  incentivize companies that hold crude to keep it in storage.  A $54 to $55 U.S. crude price will also make it more viable for  producers of high-cost U.S. shale oil to resume drilling, Gartman  said. It also allows them to hedge, or lock in a future price with  buyers at levels that support increased drilling. 