OPEC officials meeting  in Vienna to work out the details of their plan to reduce oil production failed to reach agreement after hours of talks on Friday, amid objections by Iran which has been reluctant to even freeze its output, OPEC sources said.     The High Level Committee of experts will meet again in Vienna on Nov. 25 ahead of the next meeting of OPEC ministers on Nov. 30, to "finalise individual quotas", one source said.     They will also meet as scheduled on Saturday with representatives of non-OPEC producers, which OPEC wants help from in curbing supplies.       "Yes, we continue tomorrow with non-OPEC," one of the  sources said. "(There was) no complete agreement today since Iran  refuses to freeze production."       "We didn't finish all. We are looking to the next  meeting on November 25 tofinalise individual quotas,"  another source said.       The meeting of the High Level Committee  is comprised mainly of OPEC governors and national  representatives - officials who report to their respective  ministers.       Talks lasted just over 11 hours on Friday with Iran  appearing to be the main sticking point.       "There is no agreement yet, all agree except Iran,"  one OPEC source said, adding Iran was asking for an  exemption.       The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting  Countries had agreed last month in Algiers to reduce their  production of crude oil to a range of 32.50 million to 33 million  barrels per day, OPEC's first output cut since 2008, in an effort   to prop up prices.      But from the outset the proposed plan  faced potential setbacks with Iraq wanting to be exempt from cuts  and countries including Iran, Libya and Nigeria whose  output has been hit by sanctions or conflict also wanting to  raise their output.       "It is getting complicated," a delegate said before  the meeting began on Friday.       "Every day there is a new issue coming up."       However, other OPEC officials including  Secretary-General Mohammed Barkindo remained optimistic.       "Our deliberations today, and tomorrow with some  non-OPEC producers, could very well have fundamental  ramifications for the market, as well as for the medium to long  term of the industry," Barkindo said in a speech on the opening  day of the two-day meeting, according to a text provided by  OPEC.       The committee does not decide policy and will  instead make recommendations to the next OPEC ministerial meeting  on Nov. 30.       Iraq, OPEC's second-biggest producer, said earlier  this week that it would not cut output and should be exempted  from any curbs as it needs funds to fight Islamic State.       Meanwhile Iran has insisted on its right  to recover market share after Western sanctions were lifted in  January.       Non-OPEC nations sending representatives to  Saturday's talks are Russia, Kazakhstan, Mexico, Oman,  Azerbaijan, Brazil and Bolivia. 