 In spite of recent disagreements between cartel members, Nigerian oil minister Emmanuel  Ibe Kachikwu, told CNBC that OPEC will be able to  come together in an agreement to freeze oil production as  a way to combat low oil prices.  "The Minister for energy in Qatar and the President of OPEC is  leading that pact and there is a lot of conversation going on and  there's a lot of consensus building on the issue of the freeze,"  Kachikwu said in an exclusive interview with CNBC's "Fast Money" on Friday. "Saudi  Arabia and Russia are aligned on the issue of a freeze, so I think  the chances are very high," Kachikwu added.Speculation over OPEC's intentions has been running at a fever pitch, and whipsawed the price of crude. To date, Ali al-Naimi, Saudi Arabia's oil minister, has voiced  strong resistance when it comes to a production cut, but has  indicated an openness to a freeze.Read MoreNo signs OPEC production cut is close at hand  "Freeze is the beginning of a process, and that means if we can  get all the major producers to agree not to add additional  balance, then this high inventory we have now will probably  decline in due time. It's going to take time," Naimi said at the  annual IHS CERAWeek energy conference in Houston this past week.  "It is not like cutting production. That is not going to  happen because not many countries are going to deliver even if  they say they will cut production — they will not deliver.  So there is no sense in wasting our time seeking production  cuts," he added. On Friday, Brent crude closed above $35, off nearly 10 percent year to date but well under multi-year lows under $28.  Kachikwu believes movements towards a freeze represent a big step  in the right direction, and told CNBC he remains confident in his plan to work  with OPEC members.   "The Saudi's are quite frankly in the forefront of pushing the  freeze issue," explained Kachikwu. A potential freeze among  OPEC members has made him bullish when it comes to oil prices  in 2016. Kachikwu expects crude prices to take a major jump by the end of the  year.  "I am certainly hoping for prices in the range of 45 to 50," the minister said. "I'm hoping a consensus can be built and that parties can begin to  work together across the board, not just OPEC members, but also  non-OPEC members,which is what the gulf states and most of us  have pushed for," he said. With that, "you'll begin to see movement  upwards in those prices." U.S. crude ended the week up 10.59 percent for its best week since  August 28, 2015 when it gained 11.79 percent. Brent  ended the week up 6.33 percent. 