  Indonesia's finance minister Sri Mulyani Indrawati told CNBC she  was optimistic her country could receive a ratings upgrade this  year — despite oil being pinned below $50, levels at which  she said her country is generally "comfortable."  Despite the low price of crude walloping other OPEC nations,  Indonesia, which is part of the G-20 group of the world's biggest  economies, is managing to ride out the crisis. It has a coveted  investment grade credit rating from Moody's Investors Service and  Fitch Ratings, but not yet from Standard & Poor's.   Indrawati told CNBC she hoped Indonesia's rating might be  upgraded in 2016, with the Indonesian government engaged in  programs to boost infrastructure spending, open up the private  sector and reform taxation.  "We are very much confident — this is very much the focus of  all the reform of the fiscal (policies), that we are going to  have much more credible, coherent narrative (of) policy,"  Indrawati told CNBC at the G-20 summit in Hangzhou, China on  Sunday.   "It's a very strong package (of) macro prudent and the very  ambitious structural reform. Not a country in which growth is  generated by a bubble activity but real, deep reform that can be  sustainable, so I'm optimistic that it could happen," she  added.   The International Monetary Fund sees Indonesia's economy growing  by a healthy 4.9 percent this year and 5.3 percent in  2017.   In June, Standard & Poor's affirmed Indonesia's rating  outlook at "BB+" with a positive outlook, implying the country's  credit status could be hiked to investment grade. Fitch Ratings  and Moody's Investors Service already rank Indonesia in this  category, which indicates a debt issuer is less likely to default  than peers assigned a "speculative grade" rating.   Indonesia is the only OPEC member country in Asia-Pacific and has  the largest economy in the south east of the region. It exported  $6.4 billion worth of petroleum in 2015, according to OPEC  data.  Indrawati forecast crude oil would remain at today's historically low  levels between $40 and $45 per barrel, baring disruption from  security problems or natural disasters.   "If we look at the purely supply and demand, I think that is  going to be sustained," she told CNBC.  "We already have put in a budget of around $40-$45 and (at) that  level, we're looking at all the situation in the supply side of  the oil and gas, as well as the demand side, I'm comfortable with  that level," the minister added separately.   WTI crude futures for October fell back below $45 last week.  Light crude has rallied by around 19 percent this year, but  remains far below the levels above $100 traded at prior to the  commodities rout of July 2014 onward.   Petroleum and natural  gas are major industries for Indonesia, but manufacturing,  tourism, agriculture and mining are also significant. The country  exported 315,100 of barrels of crude oil per day in 2015,  according to statistics from OPEC, which Indonesia rejoined in  July.   Follow CNBC International on Twitter and Facebook. 