  OPEC will debate an oil output cut of 4 percent to 4.5 percent for all of its members except Libya and Nigeria  next week but the deal's success hinges on an agreement from Iraq and Iran,  which are far from certain to give full backing.Three OPEC sources told Reuters a  gathering of experts from the oil producer group in Vienna had decided on Tuesday to recommend that a  ministerial meeting on Nov. 30 debate a proposal from member Algeria to reduce output  by that amount.Such a cut would bring OPEC's current  output down by more than 1.2 million barrels per day (bpd), according to Reuters calculations based on  the group's October production, and is towards the upper end of market  expectations.But sources also said the representatives  of Iran, Iraq and Indonesia had expressed reservations during talks that continued for 11 hours  about their level of participation in what would be the group's first  supply-limiting deal since 2008. Brent oil futures  were trading slightly up at around $49.2 per barrel at 2010 GMT,  having lost most of their earlier gains of around $1 a  barrel.   In September, the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting  Countries agreed to reduce production to between 32.5 million and  33.0 million bpd - an effort to prop up prices - from OPEC's own  latest production estimates of 33.64 million bpd.  OPEC's deal faces potential setbacks from Iraq's call for it to  be exempt and from Iran, which wants to increase supply because  its output has been hit by sanctions.  Iraq's foreign minister said on Tuesday in Budapest that OPEC  should allow Iraq to continue raising output with no  restrictions. Big bargain   Iran and Iraq raised certain conditions for participating in the  deal, according to sources, who were not allowed to speak on the  record because the experts were meeting behind closed doors.  Sources said Saudi  Arabia and its Gulf allies have signaled they were  prepared to cut close to 1 million bpd of their output.  The Algerian proposal would see all member countries, except  Nigeria and Libya, cutting 4-4.5 percent from OPEC's estimates of  their October production with the aim of reaching a total output  target of 32.5 million bpd, OPEC sources have said.   That would mean Saudi Arabia alone could cut up to 500,000 bpd,  sources said.  OPEC's own estimates, based on what it calls "secondary sources",  are usually lower than countries' direct submissions to the  organisation.  Under the Algerian proposal, Iran was asked to cut 4.5 percent  from almost 4 million bpd, according to sources. But Tehran has  signalled it wants to cut from higher levels of 4.1-4.2 million  bpd, one of the sources said.  Iraq was asked to cut about 200,000 bpd. Baghdad is also still  debating whether it should cut from the levels of OPEC's  estimates or its own, higher, production figures.  "Eighty-five percent of proposed OPEC cuts are from Gulf  countries but Iran is still not in favor," one source said.   Non-OPEC producer Russia was  also still not agreeing to cut production but favoring a freeze,  a senior OPEC delegate said.  "This will make it difficult for OPEC alone to rebalance the  market and bring prices up," the source said.   Follow CNBC International on Twitter and Facebook.