Pakistan and Russia to sign $10bn offshore pipeline deal 
27092018

0923
Natural GasThe Gazprom headquarters in Moscow. In a major breakthrough, Pakistan and Russia are set to sign a $10bn offshore gas pipeline deal today in Moscow, a project planned by the latter to capture the energy market of Pakistan.In a major breakthrough, Pakistan and Russia are set to sign a $10bn offshore gas pipeline deal today in Moscow, a project planned by the latter to capture the energy market of Pakistan.
 
Sources said that the cabinet, during the tenure of previous Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz (PML-N) government, had approved the signing of the gas pipeline deal with Moscow.
 
Inter State Gas Systems (ISGS) a state-owned Pakistani company established to handle gas import projects and is already working on schemes like Turkmenistan-Afghanistan-Pakistan-India (Tapi) gas pipeline has been designated by Pakistan for executing the pipeline project along with Russia's energy giant Gazprom.
 
"China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) has now entered the industrialisation phase and needs gas for duty and tax-free Special Economic Zones (SEZs)," he said. "The offshore gas pipeline will meet energy needs of industries being set up in the economic zones along CPEC route."
 
According to officials, the pipeline will connect Pakistan and Russia and act as an energy corridor between the two countries. "Strategically, it is a very important project as the two countries will come closer to each other," an official said.
Source: gulf-times.com
In a major breakthrough, Pakistan and Russia are set to sign a $10bn offshore gas pipeline deal today in Moscow, a project planned by the latter to capture the energy market of Pakistan. Sources said that the cabinet, during the tenure of previous Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz (PML-N) government, had approved the signing of the gas pipeline deal with Moscow. Inter State Gas Systems (ISGS) a state-owned Pakistani company established to handle gas import projects and is already working on schemes like Turkmenistan-Afghanistan-Pakistan-India (Tapi) gas pipeline has been designated by Pakistan for executing the pipeline project along with Russia's energy giant Gazprom. "China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) has now entered the industrialisation phase and needs gas for duty and tax-free Special Economic Zones (SEZs)," he said. "The offshore gas pipeline will meet energy needs of industries being set up in the economic zones along CPEC route." According to officials, the pipeline will connect Pakistan and Russia and act as an energy corridor between the two countries. "Strategically, it is a very important project as the two countries will come closer to each other," an official said.Source: gulf-times.com