PGNiG Fiftieth LNG cargo arriving to Poland 
24012019

0847
LNGOn Sunday, January 27th 2019, PGNiG Polish Oil and Gas Company will receive another load of liquefied natural gas. It will be the 50th delivery to the President Lech Kaczynski LNG Terminal in Swinoujscie. Thus the total LNG volume purchased so far by PGNiG will amount to approximately 5.7 bcm after regasification.The carrier Iberica Knutsen transports approx. 57 thousand tons of LNG from Sabine Pass terminal in the USA. It equals about 75 mcm of natural gas following regasification - which is the amount the entire Poland consumes in four summer days or one winter day. The cargo was purchased as part of a spot transaction from Naturgy (formerly Gas Natural Fenosa).
 
"Spot transactions is the task of our office in London. Our traders search for favorable market opportunities, thus completing our LNG portfolio. Liquefied natural gas is significantly rising in the PGNiG import structure. In 2018, its share has already exceeded 20 percent, and our ambitions for 2019 aim even higher," said Maciej Wozniak, Vice-President of PGNiG Management Board for Trade. At the end of 2018, PGNiG signed four long-term contracts for the purchase of LNG from the USA. Deliveries from one of the American partners - Cheniere Energy - will commence this year.
 
Including Naturgy spot delivery PGNiG will have imported over 4.2 million tonnes of LNG to Poland, which after regasification represents approximately 5.7 bcm, including two so-called technical loads that were necessary for commissioning of the terminal.
Source: biznesalert.com
The carrier Iberica Knutsen transports approx. 57 thousand tons of LNG from Sabine Pass terminal in the USA. It equals about 75 mcm of natural gas following regasification - which is the amount the entire Poland consumes in four summer days or one winter day. The cargo was purchased as part of a spot transaction from Naturgy (formerly Gas Natural Fenosa). "Spot transactions is the task of our office in London. Our traders search for favorable market opportunities, thus completing our LNG portfolio. Liquefied natural gas is significantly rising in the PGNiG import structure. In 2018, its share has already exceeded 20 percent, and our ambitions for 2019 aim even higher," said Maciej Wozniak, Vice-President of PGNiG Management Board for Trade. At the end of 2018, PGNiG signed four long-term contracts for the purchase of LNG from the USA. Deliveries from one of the American partners - Cheniere Energy - will commence this year. Including Naturgy spot delivery PGNiG will have imported over 4.2 million tonnes of LNG to Poland, which after regasification represents approximately 5.7 bcm, including two so-called technical loads that were necessary for commissioning of the terminal.Source: biznesalert.com