Oil and gas entrepreneur T. Boone Pickens  thinks international oil prices will stay high indefinitely—over  $100 a barrel—despite recent declines in the futures market.  At the Investools 4th Annual Investor Education Conference in  Dallas, Pickens reminded investors  that OPEC's largest producer, Saudi  Arabia, needs oil prices to remain elevated in order to  maintain its social spending programs; therefore, the  Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) will  simply reduce production whenever it must in order to keep prices  high.  "Oil is not a free market. OPEC  sets the price of oil," Pickens told CNBC. "They can set the  price because they produce 30 million barrels a day out of 92  million for the world...those 30 million barrels can be the swing  factor."  With respect to domestic crude prices, which are now trading at  less than $100 a barrel thanks to plentiful U.S. supply, Pickens  said he thinks West Texas  Intermediate could continue to decline, but not without  consequences. Read MoreWithout Iraq's oil, prices could hit  $150-$200: Pickens  "WTI will do the same thing natural  gas did, when there was too much natural gas [on the market],  price[s] came down. If the [domestic] oil price gets to $80 a  barrel, rigs will shut down," he said. "If it gets to $80 [it  will] shut down West Texas."  Pickens admitted that recent declines in crude prices took him  off guard, especially given the ongoing violence in the Middle  East. He said that it appears the world is looking at  international tensions differently than it has in the past.  "I've been surprised at the market and have actually taken a loss  on Brent and North Sea crude," he said. "It seems like the world  has accepted war in the Middle  East. After a while investors say: 'OK, that's the way it's  going to be,' and production hasn't been cut off any place."  According to Pickens, the U.S. can easily move away from higher  priced OPEC oil and capitalize on North American resources.  "The U.S. is the largest user of oil in the world—18 million  barrels," he said. "We produce 8.5 million barrels, so we're  importing half of what we use."  Pickens went on to explain that of the imports, half come from  Canada and Mexico, while only a little less than 2 million  barrels actually come from the Middle East. On a relative basis,  that's a small amount to find elsewhere, he said. Read MoreObama, Congress should have listened  to me: Pickens  The U.S. is producing more of its own supply in recent years. In  1970, U.S. production peaked at 10 million barrels a day, but it  declined over the next few decades to about 4.5 million barrels.   The U.S. will likely see domestic production spike further,  Pickens said.  "[Analysts] are saying that we could get up to 14 million barrels  a day in 10 years, I think," he said.  He also highlighted that the market didn't foresee the potential  for what could be produced at home, and that's why the United  States turned to the Middle East.  "We went to the Middle East because we thought that was where we  were going to get oil, and it was a good decision...but what no  one saw in the future was horizontal drilling. And there, you  doubled your production. It was that simple," he said.  Another way to move away from OPEC is to import more Canadian  crude, he said. The politically and environmentally controversial Keystone Pipeline, owned by TransCanada, is one way to do that, Pickens said.Read MoreWhat Iraq's war may mean for the Keystone pipelinePickens also  shared some investing ideas within the energy sector. Asked  about Master Limited Partnerships (MLPs)—limited partnerships that have specific tax benefits because they distribute most of their cash flow to investors—he suggested they should be considered by energy investors, raising the point  that Kinder Morgan's recent deal will urge others to look at how  to unlock value.Kinder Morgan  that it will combine several energy units that previously traded separately, in a deal valued at $71 billion. The move in effect means abandoning the MLP structure, but resulted in a big spike in those separate units' shares.  Within the energy sector, Pickens highlighted the oil producers as a subgroup that presents investor opportunity; he also said to expect  consolidation in the industry. One name he still likes is Pioneer  Natural Resources, because of its massive Texas acreage and its  drilling capabilities. —By CNBC's Jackie DeAngelis.