Oil stocks have taken a beating along with crude prices, but  companies that run on energy have taken the Dow Jones  Transportation Average to new highs.  "You saw the big [oil] integrators get hit last week. They're going to  continue to get hit," John Kilduff, founding partner of Again  Capital, told CNBC on Monday. He said he won't touch that sector with a "10-foot pole right  now."  On the flipside, Donald Broughton, analyst at Avondale Partners,  said on "Squawk Box" that  transportation companies are benefiting from cheaper oil and gas  prices.   "This is the first industrial-led recovery since 1961," said  Broughton. "I like American-based companies doing business here  at the epicenter of the big [fracking] splash."Read MoreFalling oil isn't    the end of the world: Kudlow  But the fracking revolution in the Bakken region of North Dakota  and Montana that has spurred growth in U.S. oil production in  recent years may be at risk if crude prices continue to  fall.  "The economics in the Bakken are now hitting those critical  thresholds where these wells are uneconomic. And you're likely to  see production fall [eventually]," said Kurt Hallead, co-head of  energy research at RBC Capital Markets.  "We've all sharpened our pencils now as far as break-even for  shale. It's as low as $40 a barrel here,"  Kilduff said.  In early trading Monday, WTI crude in the U.S. was trading  around $65 a barrel, around a five-year low, after OPEC on Thursday decided to maintain its  production levels. Read MoreOil hits five-year low, floor  unsure  The market should have seen the oil plunge coming, Kilduff said.  "We hit the tipping point at about mid-year where U.S. Gulf Coast  storage of oil was almost full and Nigeria as a country had upwards of 30 to 40 supertankers full of oil with nowhere go."  He added that the oversupply will be most pronounced early next year,  when oil could hit "that $40 or even that $35 level."  "It's the first supply shock that OPEC has had to face to 1997," said Hallead, who also  sees more near-term pain but said prices could recover in five  years to the "$80 to $100 range." Read MoreCan oil fall all the way to  $40?  The reasons that prices may not rebound as quickly as they did in the  past, he argued, are twofold. "Our discretionary use of oil in  the OECD countries is not what it used to be ... because we've  got more efficient cars and infrastructure." Members of  the Organization for Economic Co-operation and  Development include the U.S., Canada and Mexico, many  European countries and Japan.  "In non-OECD countries, like China especially, demand growth is  really closely correlated to GDP growth. And that's the big dog  here," Book said. "If you have GDP slowing down in China, then  demand doesn't respond necessarily at these lower prices quite  as much as you might expect, the gap stays open longer.It's not all doom and gloom for oil companies, offered Kilduff. "The only saving grace for Shell and Exxon to a degree is the refining margins are  holding up beautifully because there's still sufficient demand  for the diesel fuel they make. That's the only  aspect of their portfolios that are going to do well."