Poland and Denmark sign agreement to build gas pipeline in Baltic Sea 
04122018

0913
Natural GasPoland and Denmark have agreed to go ahead with the Baltic Pipe, which will span 900 km of the bottom of the Baltic Sea, and is scheduled to start supplying Poland with Norwegian gas in 2022.Polish Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki tweeted that the agreement had been signed on November 30.
 
"Today we were able to make a quantum leap towards the security and independence of the Polish energy sector. An investment decision was made to create the strategic Baltic Pipe gas pipeline, which will enable us to import gas from the Norwegian shelf through Denmark," Morawiecki said.
 
Baltic Pipe should start supplying gas to Poland from the moment the contract with the Russian gas monopoly Gazprom comes to an end.
 
The Polish gas operator GAZ-SYSTEM SA and Danish Energinet SOV announced that they have drafted an agreement which will see the pipeline activated by October 1, 2022.
 
The pipeline is designed to have a capacity of 10 billion cubic meters per year.
 
The project will receive EUR51.4 million in financial support from the EU's Connecting Europe Facility (CEF). The total cost of the project has not been disclosed.
Source: uawire.org
Polish Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki tweeted that the agreement had been signed on November 30. "Today we were able to make a quantum leap towards the security and independence of the Polish energy sector. An investment decision was made to create the strategic Baltic Pipe gas pipeline, which will enable us to import gas from the Norwegian shelf through Denmark," Morawiecki said. Baltic Pipe should start supplying gas to Poland from the moment the contract with the Russian gas monopoly Gazprom comes to an end. The Polish gas operator GAZ-SYSTEM SA and Danish Energinet SOV announced that they have drafted an agreement which will see the pipeline activated by October 1, 2022. The pipeline is designed to have a capacity of 10 billion cubic meters per year. The project will receive EUR51.4 million in financial support from the EU's Connecting Europe Facility (CEF). The total cost of the project has not been disclosed.Source: uawire.org