Polish PGNiG starts drilling new production well in Pakistan 
10072019

0938
Natural GasPGNiG Operating Branch in Pakistan is carrying out work in the Rizq licence area, north of Rizq-1 well, which was brought on stream in November 2016. A year later, another well, Rizq-2, was drilled.Currently, daily output from the Rizq field is 417 000 cu m of gas (approximately 290 m3 per minute). Exalo Drilling, a PGNiG Group company, is now starting to drill the Rizq-3 well, whose target depth is 3,277 metres.
 
"We are proceeding with the work in Pakistan as planned. The outlook for growth in demand for gas in this country is bright, which is an incentive to develop the exploration and production business. By the end of the year we will start drilling more boreholes and new wells will come online,' said Piotr Wozniak, CEO of PGNiG.
 
PGNiG produces natural gas from 2 fields in Pakistan - Rizq and Rehman. There are currently five production wells in the Rehman field and 2 in the Rizq field. Gas from both fields is sent to the production facility located in the Rehman licence area. It is PGNiG's 1st gas production facility outside Poland (in Norway, PGNiG produces gas from offshore platforms).
Source: neftegaz.ru
Currently, daily output from the Rizq field is 417 000 cu m of gas (approximately 290 m3 per minute). Exalo Drilling, a PGNiG Group company, is now starting to drill the Rizq-3 well, whose target depth is 3,277 metres. "We are proceeding with the work in Pakistan as planned. The outlook for growth in demand for gas in this country is bright, which is an incentive to develop the exploration and production business. By the end of the year we will start drilling more boreholes and new wells will come online,' said Piotr Wozniak, CEO of PGNiG. PGNiG produces natural gas from 2 fields in Pakistan - Rizq and Rehman. There are currently five production wells in the Rehman field and 2 in the Rizq field. Gas from both fields is sent to the production facility located in the Rehman licence area. It is PGNiG's 1st gas production facility outside Poland (in Norway, PGNiG produces gas from offshore platforms).Source: neftegaz.ru