Polish and German TSOs submit a project to convey natural gas from Poland to Germany 
23102017

1040
Natural GasPoland's natural gas transmission system operator Gas-System submit a proposal for increasing gas capacity on the interconnection between Poland and Germany to allow gas transportation to the German GASPOOL network.   
The proposal was drafted jointly by Gas-System and German TSO Ontrans, and would create a project of 3.6 million euros ($4.2 million) to allow the transportation of 2,025,676 kWh/h (4.5 million cu m/d) of gas from Poland to Germany.
 
Gaz-System reveals that the demand for increasing capacity from Poland to Gaspool was shown in a non-binding market demand evaluation completed between April and May.
 
Recently, the main transmission route at the interconnection of 1.5 billion cubic meters yearly volume at Lasow has been from Germany to Poland. In mid-2016 Poland installed a 5 billion cubic meters/year LNG terminal close to the German frontier at Swinoujscie and the nation's state-run gas incumbent, PGNiG, expects to boost imports through the terminal.
 
The higher capacity would be expanded with already existing capacity at the interconnection point. It would take about 30 months to fulfill the investment. The proposal is enrolled in two months of public consultations. 
 The proposal was drafted jointly by Gas-System and German TSO Ontrans, and would create a project of 3.6 million euros ($4.2 million) to allow the transportation of 2,025,676 kWh/h (4.5 million cu m/d) of gas from Poland to Germany. Gaz-System reveals that the demand for increasing capacity from Poland to Gaspool was shown in a non-binding market demand evaluation completed between April and May. Recently, the main transmission route at the interconnection of 1.5 billion cubic meters yearly volume at Lasow has been from Germany to Poland. In mid-2016 Poland installed a 5 billion cubic meters/year LNG terminal close to the German frontier at Swinoujscie and the nation's state-run gas incumbent, PGNiG, expects to boost imports through the terminal. The higher capacity would be expanded with already existing capacity at the interconnection point. It would take about 30 months to fulfill the investment. The proposal is enrolled in two months of public consultations. 