Polish Gdansk port H1 crude arrivals hit record high on Druzhba outage 
11072019

0902
Oil MarketAccording to Platts, Poland's oil pipeline operator PERN said crude deliveries to Gdansk's Naftoport increased almost 30% year on year in the 1st half of this year to 8.3 million mt, a record high, as a result of the suspension of Russian pipeline deliveries.In May, during the 46-day suspension of crude deliveries via the Druzhba pipeline, Naftoport unloaded 2.2 million mt of crude oil, more than twice the monthly average.
 
"Our refineries have increasingly diversifying their portfolio of crude oil supply sources in recent years. We found out how much we needed that in recent months when we had to test the possibilities of the Polish transmission system and Naftoport's potential in an urgent manner. The test was successful because customers at filling stations did not experience any problems with fuel supplies in the country. We are on the right track when it comes to building oil and fuel energy independence", said PERN CEO Igor Wasilewski.
 
PERN suspended taking delivery of contaminated Russian crude through the Druzhba pipeline on April 24, because of the increased amount of organic chlorides in the crude oil, which could damage refining facilities. Reduced deliveries resumed on June 9 after 46 days.
Source: neftegaz.ru
In May, during the 46-day suspension of crude deliveries via the Druzhba pipeline, Naftoport unloaded 2.2 million mt of crude oil, more than twice the monthly average. "Our refineries have increasingly diversifying their portfolio of crude oil supply sources in recent years. We found out how much we needed that in recent months when we had to test the possibilities of the Polish transmission system and Naftoport's potential in an urgent manner. The test was successful because customers at filling stations did not experience any problems with fuel supplies in the country. We are on the right track when it comes to building oil and fuel energy independence", said PERN CEO Igor Wasilewski. PERN suspended taking delivery of contaminated Russian crude through the Druzhba pipeline on April 24, because of the increased amount of organic chlorides in the crude oil, which could damage refining facilities. Reduced deliveries resumed on June 9 after 46 days.Source: neftegaz.ru