Polskie LNG announces record-breaking results for 2018 
13122018

0922
LNGPolskie LNG has announced record-breaking results for 2018, establishing itself as a key player on the European stage.2018 has been a record-breaking year for Polskie LNG's terminal. Up until the beginning of December this year, the terminal has received 21 cargoes of LNG. This accounts for a significant quantity of the terminal's total unloaded cargoes, which currently stands at approximately 45. Two more vessels are scheduled to call in December, and in all likelihood Polskie LNG will have unloaded its 50th cargo by the end of the 1Q19.
 
2018 has also seen over 1500 tank trucks loaded at the terminal. This figure (estimated as of the turn of November and December) already exceeds the number of trucks handled in other European LNG terminals in the same period - e.g. Rotterdam (Gate), and Belgian Fluxys in Zeebrugge. Polskie LNG still has significant chances to increase this number as the real peak period of increased demand for LNG falls within the upcoming winter season.
 
"Our terminal and its expansion plan is perfectly consistent with the perspective of rapid development of the so-called small scale LNG (SSLNG)," emphasised Pawel Jakubowski, president of Polskie LNG. "Following the completion of development works, we will offer additional services such as transhipment of LNG onto rail tankers as well as to small scale gas carriers. We will have influence[d] the development of the gas market in [the] maritime, inland waterway, rail and vehicle transport [sectors]. It should also be added that all these developments will improve the relevance of Swinoujscie terminal in in the Northern as well as Central and Eastern Europe."
Source: lngindustry.com
2018 has been a record-breaking year for Polskie LNG's terminal. Up until the beginning of December this year, the terminal has received 21 cargoes of LNG. This accounts for a significant quantity of the terminal's total unloaded cargoes, which currently stands at approximately 45. Two more vessels are scheduled to call in December, and in all likelihood Polskie LNG will have unloaded its 50th cargo by the end of the 1Q19. 2018 has also seen over 1500 tank trucks loaded at the terminal. This figure (estimated as of the turn of November and December) already exceeds the number of trucks handled in other European LNG terminals in the same period - e.g. Rotterdam (Gate), and Belgian Fluxys in Zeebrugge. Polskie LNG still has significant chances to increase this number as the real peak period of increased demand for LNG falls within the upcoming winter season. "Our terminal and its expansion plan is perfectly consistent with the perspective of rapid development of the so-called small scale LNG (SSLNG)," emphasised Pawel Jakubowski, president of Polskie LNG. "Following the completion of development works, we will offer additional services such as transhipment of LNG onto rail tankers as well as to small scale gas carriers. We will have influence[d] the development of the gas market in [the] maritime, inland waterway, rail and vehicle transport [sectors]. It should also be added that all these developments will improve the relevance of Swinoujscie terminal in in the Northern as well as Central and Eastern Europe."Source: lngindustry.com