Renewables firm gets go-ahead for solar farm 
28052018

0846
RenewableRenewables firm Elgin Energy has been granted Scottish Government consent for a 50 megawatt solar farm at Milltown Airfield near the Moray town.The project is the largest of its kind consented in Scotland to date and is the first to be approved by the Energy Consents Unit (ECU), which rules on developments of 50 megawatts or greater.
 
It will be developed on approximately 285 acres of the former RAF Airfield, which was decommissioned in the 1970s, on land owned by the Innes Estate.
 
Elgin Energy managing director, Ronan Kilduff, said: "This large-scale project is the fruition of the commitment and vision between Elgin Energy, Innes Estate, Scottish and Southern Energy Power Distribution, National Grid, Savills and the rest of our professional support team.
 
"The ECU, Moray Council and all parties involved in the planning process have been highly engaging and we are delighted with this outcome.
 
"We would hope to begin developing this project in the early 2020s. Elgin Energy is continuing to invest in Scottish solar and across the UK to accelerate the transition to a low carbon, secure and affordable UK energy system."
Source: pressandjournal.co.uk
The project is the largest of its kind consented in Scotland to date and is the first to be approved by the Energy Consents Unit (ECU), which rules on developments of 50 megawatts or greater. It will be developed on approximately 285 acres of the former RAF Airfield, which was decommissioned in the 1970s, on land owned by the Innes Estate. Elgin Energy managing director, Ronan Kilduff, said: "This large-scale project is the fruition of the commitment and vision between Elgin Energy, Innes Estate, Scottish and Southern Energy Power Distribution, National Grid, Savills and the rest of our professional support team. "The ECU, Moray Council and all parties involved in the planning process have been highly engaging and we are delighted with this outcome. "We would hope to begin developing this project in the early 2020s. Elgin Energy is continuing to invest in Scottish solar and across the UK to accelerate the transition to a low carbon, secure and affordable UK energy system."Source: pressandjournal.co.uk