Renewable power share in Germany rises to record level in 2018 
17122018

0936
RenewableRenewable energy sources are set to contribute about 38 percent to Germany's gross power consumption in 2018, a two-point increase over the previous year and a new record for the country's energy transition, the Energiewende, the German Association of Energy and Water Industries (BDEW) said in a press release."In January, April and May, renewables even reached 43 percent," the association added. The BDEW, together with renewables research institute ZSW estimates that wind turbines, solar panels and other renewable power sources will have generated about 229 billion kilowatt hours (kWh) of electricity in the country by the end of the year.
 
"Germany has reached a new record. That is laudable. But at current expansion rates, we won't meet the 2030 goal of 65 percent renewable power," said BDEW head Stefan Kapferer.
 
He called for additional auctions for offshore wind power and more planning security for onshore wind power projects, and for fostering greater acceptance among citizens for building energy transition infrastructure.
 
According to the BDEW, onshore wind turbines generated 94 billion kWh, seven percent more than in 2017. It was followed by biogas with 52 billion kWh, a two-percent increase, and solar power with nearly 40 billion kWh, which grew by nearly 18 percent. Of all renewable sources, "only hydropower generated a smaller output [16 percent less] due to the long-lasting drought in 2018," the association said.
Source: cleanenergywire.org
"In January, April and May, renewables even reached 43 percent," the association added. The BDEW, together with renewables research institute ZSW estimates that wind turbines, solar panels and other renewable power sources will have generated about 229 billion kilowatt hours (kWh) of electricity in the country by the end of the year. "Germany has reached a new record. That is laudable. But at current expansion rates, we won't meet the 2030 goal of 65 percent renewable power," said BDEW head Stefan Kapferer. He called for additional auctions for offshore wind power and more planning security for onshore wind power projects, and for fostering greater acceptance among citizens for building energy transition infrastructure. According to the BDEW, onshore wind turbines generated 94 billion kWh, seven percent more than in 2017. It was followed by biogas with 52 billion kWh, a two-percent increase, and solar power with nearly 40 billion kWh, which grew by nearly 18 percent. Of all renewable sources, "only hydropower generated a smaller output [16 percent less] due to the long-lasting drought in 2018," the association said.Source: cleanenergywire.org