Renewable energy to be complemented by natural gas 
16102017

1547
RenewableNatural gas will be the shipper of renewables in the future, as stated on Friday by vice president of Gas Infrastructure Europe, Wim Groenendijk, in Zagreb, the capital of Croatia. He declared at the 2nd International Association for Energy Economics (IAEE) Eurasian Conference that there will be natural gas extracted from renewable energy. Groenendijk affirmed: "You can produce gas from electricity into gas into hydrogen, by using electricity. That is renewable gas"
 
In the transport industry gas will be the main source of fuel especially for trucks and ships as it becomes a more environmental-friendly source.
 
There are several methods to obtain environmental gas. The first one is Power to gas technology that provides the opportunity to convert electricity to gas fuel. The other one is transforming the excess of wind energy into gas, a concept named windgas. All the current methods use electricity to separate water into hydrogen and oxygen by means of electrolysis.
 
Trade of natural gas globally enhanced by approximately 5 percent in 2016 year-on-year and proved gas reserves worldwide in 2016 increased slightly by 1.2 trillion cubic meters to 186.6 trillion cubic meters.
   
He declared at the 2nd International Association for Energy Economics (IAEE) Eurasian Conference that there will be natural gas extracted from renewable energy. Groenendijk affirmed: "You can produce gas from electricity into gas into hydrogen, by using electricity. That is renewable gas" In the transport industry gas will be the main source of fuel especially for trucks and ships as it becomes a more environmental-friendly source. There are several methods to obtain environmental gas. The first one is Power to gas technology that provides the opportunity to convert electricity to gas fuel. The other one is transforming the excess of wind energy into gas, a concept named windgas. All the current methods use electricity to separate water into hydrogen and oxygen by means of electrolysis. Trade of natural gas globally enhanced by approximately 5 percent in 2016 year-on-year and proved gas reserves worldwide in 2016 increased slightly by 1.2 trillion cubic meters to 186.6 trillion cubic meters.
   