Repsol, Enagas to develop renewable hydrogen technology 
01082018

0858
RenewableSpanish energy company Repsol and Spanish gas system operator Enagas have signed an agreement to continue developing technology that allows the production of renewable hydrogen, Repsol announced on Monday.Repsol, who originally developed this technology at the Repsol Technology Center in Mostoles, Spain, will use solar energy as a primary source. Repsol said that through its collaboration with Enagas -- its first technological partnership that integrates a partner into the company's value chain -- it would accelerate the deployment of this technology.
 
In a press release on Monday, Repsol said the technology would drive progress toward a medium-term objective for both companies, which is incorporating the gas obtained through this new low-carbon process into their respective businesses, in order to improve sustainability and efficiency.
 
According to the statement, the use of solar energy in the production would reduce carbon footprint by more than 90 percent compared with other conventional processes for obtaining this gas.
 
In the medium term, Repsol will be able to use the renewable hydrogen obtained through this new method in its refining processes in order to produce cleaner fuels and reduce the presence of sulfur.
 
Repsol will also use renewable hydrogen in its chemicals business, as part of conventional processes such as rubber hydrogenation.
 
According to the press release, Repsol has three registered patent families, two of which have already been granted in Europe, as a result of the prior development process, representing one of the 52 scientific collaboration agreements the company has signed with the world's top research centers and universities.
 
Enagas is Spain's leading natural gas transmission company, and an independent transmission system operator (TSO) accredited by the EU.
Source: aa.com.tr
Repsol, who originally developed this technology at the Repsol Technology Center in Mostoles, Spain, will use solar energy as a primary source. Repsol said that through its collaboration with Enagas -- its first technological partnership that integrates a partner into the company's value chain -- it would accelerate the deployment of this technology. In a press release on Monday, Repsol said the technology would drive progress toward a medium-term objective for both companies, which is incorporating the gas obtained through this new low-carbon process into their respective businesses, in order to improve sustainability and efficiency. According to the statement, the use of solar energy in the production would reduce carbon footprint by more than 90 percent compared with other conventional processes for obtaining this gas. In the medium term, Repsol will be able to use the renewable hydrogen obtained through this new method in its refining processes in order to produce cleaner fuels and reduce the presence of sulfur. Repsol will also use renewable hydrogen in its chemicals business, as part of conventional processes such as rubber hydrogenation. According to the press release, Repsol has three registered patent families, two of which have already been granted in Europe, as a result of the prior development process, representing one of the 52 scientific collaboration agreements the company has signed with the world's top research centers and universities. Enagas is Spain's leading natural gas transmission company, and an independent transmission system operator (TSO) accredited by the EU.Source: aa.com.tr