Rosatom starts building the 2 Bushehr nuclear plant in Iran 
03112017

1249
NuclearRussian atomic energy giant Rosatom together with Atomic Energy Organization of Iran have commenced the construction of the 2100 Mega Watts unit 2 of the Bushehr nuclear power plant (NPP) in Iran.As decided in the contract inked in November 2014, the unit 2 is being constructed by dealer Atomstroyexport, a unit of Rosatom, close to the operational Bushehr-1 nuclear plant.

Alexei Likhachev, General Director of Rosatom announced: "By date Bushehr-1 has already generated 25 billion kWh of electricity and this is a serious contribution to the economy of Iran which gives an opportunity to channel additional funds to development of both the social sphere and industry of the country."

The Bushehr 2 NPP will design VVER-1000 power units projected with Generation III+ technology which stick to the most rigorous post-Fukushima security standards. Ali Akbar Salehi, Atomic Energy Commission head of Iran, affirmed that he hopes that for 7 years it will witness the putting on track this unit and in 2.5 years period they will see the Unit 3 of this Nuclear Power Plant installed within Stage 2 of the plant.

According to forecasts, the project will have an impact to Iran's strategy to produce 20,000 MW of nuclear-generated electricity. While the pit for unit 3 is scheduled to be constructed in 2018, the first concrete is expected to be brought to unit 2 in 2019.
 
Ali Akbar Salehi, the AEOI chief, further declared that the first phase of Bushehr nuclear power plant is in working condition and as a result, some 11 million barrels of crude oil is saved yearly. The electricity generation by a 1,000 MW plant will also help lower gas emissions by around seven million tons annually.
 
As decided in the contract inked in November 2014, the unit 2 is being constructed by dealer Atomstroyexport, a unit of Rosatom, close to the operational Bushehr-1 nuclear plant.
Alexei Likhachev, General Director of Rosatom announced: "By date Bushehr-1 has already generated 25 billion kWh of electricity and this is a serious contribution to the economy of Iran which gives an opportunity to channel additional funds to development of both the social sphere and industry of the country."
The Bushehr 2 NPP will design VVER-1000 power units projected with Generation III+ technology which stick to the most rigorous post-Fukushima security standards. Ali Akbar Salehi, Atomic Energy Commission head of Iran, affirmed that he hopes that for 7 years it will witness the putting on track this unit and in 2.5 years period they will see the Unit 3 of this Nuclear Power Plant installed within Stage 2 of the plant.
According to forecasts, the project will have an impact to Iran's strategy to produce 20,000 MW of nuclear-generated electricity. While the pit for unit 3 is scheduled to be constructed in 2018, the first concrete is expected to be brought to unit 2 in 2019. Ali Akbar Salehi, the AEOI chief, further declared that the first phase of Bushehr nuclear power plant is in working condition and as a result, some 11 million barrels of crude oil is saved yearly. The electricity generation by a 1,000 MW plant will also help lower gas emissions by around seven million tons annually.
 