Russia, China ink four nuclear deals in Bejing 
11062018

0836
NuclearRussia and China signed the biggest package of contracts in the history of the two countries' nuclear partnership, according to Russia's state nuclear company Rosatom on Friday.The package consists of four deals that envisage the construction of four Gen 3+ VVER-1200 reactor units at the Xudabao and Tianwan sites, cooperation in the CFR-600 fast reactor pilot project, and supply of the Radioisotope Thermoelectric Generator (RITEG) parts for China's lunar exploration program.
 
The deal was signed in Beijing in the presence of Russian President Vladimir Putin and the People's Republic of China President Xi Jinping.
 
"The signing of these agreements is the best confirmation of our partnership with our Chinese friends," Rosatom CEO Alexey Likhachev was quoted as saying.
 
"We developed a framework for joint design and construction at the Tianwan site by both Russian and Chinese specialists. We continue to jointly build the most modern Gen 3+ units in China. Moreover, today we agreed to start the construction of VVER-1200 power units at a greenfield site," Likhachev added.
 
The construction of the four new units - two at the greenfield site of Xudabao and two at unit 7 and 8 at the Tianwan plant will feature Russia's latest Gen3+ VVER-1200 reactors, which Rosatom will develop and supply, along with other necessary equipment to the nuclear island.
 
The third deal involves the supply of equipment, fuel, and services for the China National Nuclear Corporation-developed CFR-600 fast reactor pilot project.
 
The last deal was signed for the supply of radionuclide heat units (UHR) which will be used as parts of radioisotope thermoelectric generators to power equipment in China's space program, for use in particular in lunar exploration.
Source: aa.com.tr
The package consists of four deals that envisage the construction of four Gen 3+ VVER-1200 reactor units at the Xudabao and Tianwan sites, cooperation in the CFR-600 fast reactor pilot project, and supply of the Radioisotope Thermoelectric Generator (RITEG) parts for China's lunar exploration program. The deal was signed in Beijing in the presence of Russian President Vladimir Putin and the People's Republic of China President Xi Jinping. "The signing of these agreements is the best confirmation of our partnership with our Chinese friends," Rosatom CEO Alexey Likhachev was quoted as saying. "We developed a framework for joint design and construction at the Tianwan site by both Russian and Chinese specialists. We continue to jointly build the most modern Gen 3+ units in China. Moreover, today we agreed to start the construction of VVER-1200 power units at a greenfield site," Likhachev added. The construction of the four new units - two at the greenfield site of Xudabao and two at unit 7 and 8 at the Tianwan plant will feature Russia's latest Gen3+ VVER-1200 reactors, which Rosatom will develop and supply, along with other necessary equipment to the nuclear island. The third deal involves the supply of equipment, fuel, and services for the China National Nuclear Corporation-developed CFR-600 fast reactor pilot project. The last deal was signed for the supply of radionuclide heat units (UHR) which will be used as parts of radioisotope thermoelectric generators to power equipment in China's space program, for use in particular in lunar exploration.Source: aa.com.tr