Russia, Saudi Arabia Agree To Expand Cooperation On Oil, Gas 
15062018

1004
Oil MarketRussia and Saudi Arabia say they have agreed to expand their cooperation on oil and gas matters after having teamed up to help bolster oil prices in the past two years.Russian President Vladimir Putin, Saudi Crown Prince Muhammad bin Salman, and the two nations' energy ministers reached the agreement in Moscow on June 14 before their soccer teams played each other in the first World Cup match, officials said.
 
Saudi Energy Minister Khalid al-Falih and his Russian counterpart Aleksandr Novak said in a joint statement that the world's two largest oil producers would continue their market management efforts by striving "for a balanced market that is supported by a reliable and sufficient supply" of oil.
 
The bilateral agreement was endorsed by Putin and Salman, who said "without a doubt, we would like to continue this cooperation and move forwards."
 
Salman said his country, which is the largest oil producer in the OPEC oil cartel, and Russia, which is the world's largest oil exporter, have forged "a very historic OPEC-plus agreement" to continue the cooperation between OPEC, Russia, and other non-OPEC producers that began in 2016.
 
"We will continue working together in the most important area for us," Putin said.
 
The 2016 agreement to freeze oil production was forged amid a dramatic fall in oil prices that had helped plunge major oil-producing countries into economic downturns while slashing the oil tax revenues they depend on for spending on military and social programs.
 
Novak said on June 14 that OPEC and its partners should consider raising production by as much as 1.5 million barrels a day, in what would amount to a near-complete reversal of the 1.8 million barrels of cuts put in place in 2016.
 
In their joint statement, Novak and Falih credited their existing agreement for leading "to the stabilization of the oil market."
 
They said that in the future they would seek to "support investment in the oil and gas sector to meet the growing demand for oil and compensate for natural decline in production."
Source: rferl.org
Russian President Vladimir Putin, Saudi Crown Prince Muhammad bin Salman, and the two nations' energy ministers reached the agreement in Moscow on June 14 before their soccer teams played each other in the first World Cup match, officials said. Saudi Energy Minister Khalid al-Falih and his Russian counterpart Aleksandr Novak said in a joint statement that the world's two largest oil producers would continue their market management efforts by striving "for a balanced market that is supported by a reliable and sufficient supply" of oil. The bilateral agreement was endorsed by Putin and Salman, who said "without a doubt, we would like to continue this cooperation and move forwards." Salman said his country, which is the largest oil producer in the OPEC oil cartel, and Russia, which is the world's largest oil exporter, have forged "a very historic OPEC-plus agreement" to continue the cooperation between OPEC, Russia, and other non-OPEC producers that began in 2016. "We will continue working together in the most important area for us," Putin said. The 2016 agreement to freeze oil production was forged amid a dramatic fall in oil prices that had helped plunge major oil-producing countries into economic downturns while slashing the oil tax revenues they depend on for spending on military and social programs. Novak said on June 14 that OPEC and its partners should consider raising production by as much as 1.5 million barrels a day, in what would amount to a near-complete reversal of the 1.8 million barrels of cuts put in place in 2016. In their joint statement, Novak and Falih credited their existing agreement for leading "to the stabilization of the oil market." They said that in the future they would seek to "support investment in the oil and gas sector to meet the growing demand for oil and compensate for natural decline in production."Source: rferl.org