Russia outpaces US in terms of LNG supplies to Europe, says minister 
24122019

0922
LNGRussia has outpaced the US in terms of liquefied natural gas (LNG) supplies to Europe over the past several years, Energy Minister Alexander Novak said in an interview aired by the RBC TV channel on Monday."We have already notably outpaced the United States in terms of LNG supplies. Our share of LNG supplies to Europe stands at 20%, while the Americans' is 13%. Meanwhile, only 2-3 years ago we almost did not supply LNG. Our deliveries amount to almost 12-13 mln tonnes due to the launch of new projects, whereas the US' supplies gained 4-5 mln tonnes in two years to 9 mln tonnes," he stated.
 
Currently LNG consumption is on the rise in countries, to which Russia does not supply pipeline gas, Novak said, mentioning Spain and France as examples. He also noted that the number of countries consuming LNG doubled by now.
 
Gas share in the energy balance will grow in the future, whereas the share of oil and coal will decline, the minister pointed out, adding that the existing gas recovery and processing mechanisms will only contribute to the growth of its share in the global energy balance.
Source: tass.com
"We have already notably outpaced the United States in terms of LNG supplies. Our share of LNG supplies to Europe stands at 20%, while the Americans' is 13%. Meanwhile, only 2-3 years ago we almost did not supply LNG. Our deliveries amount to almost 12-13 mln tonnes due to the launch of new projects, whereas the US' supplies gained 4-5 mln tonnes in two years to 9 mln tonnes," he stated. Currently LNG consumption is on the rise in countries, to which Russia does not supply pipeline gas, Novak said, mentioning Spain and France as examples. He also noted that the number of countries consuming LNG doubled by now. Gas share in the energy balance will grow in the future, whereas the share of oil and coal will decline, the minister pointed out, adding that the existing gas recovery and processing mechanisms will only contribute to the growth of its share in the global energy balance.Source: tass.com