Russia and Congo will collaborate in nuclear power 
15022018

1539
NuclearRosatom and the Ministry of Scientific Research and Technological Innovations of the Republic of Congo have inked a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU), which establishes a cooperation in the pacific usage of nuclear energy.The accord was inked on February 13 in Moscow by the Russian state nuclear corporation's deputy director general for international relations, Nikolay Spassky, and the ambassador extraordinary and plenipotentiary of the Republic of the Congo in Russia, David Maduka.
 
The parties set a legal framework for reaching bilateral collaboration objectives in various areas. These aim to develop nuclear infrastructure in the Republic of Congo and programmes directed to raise awareness of nuclear technologies and their applications, as well as the usage of radioisotopes and radiation technologies in manufacturing, agriculture, healthcare, education and training of human resources.
 
The parties have also discussed the possibility to construct a Centre for Nuclear Science and Technology with a Russian-designed research reactor in the African state. They want to create joint expert working groups to begin implementation of the MoU.
 
The Republic of Congo has no nuclear energy installations, but the bordering Democratic Republic of the Congo had two functional research reactors. TRICO-I operated between 1959 and 1970 and TRICO-II between 1972 and 1992.
The accord was inked on February 13 in Moscow by the Russian state nuclear corporation's deputy director general for international relations, Nikolay Spassky, and the ambassador extraordinary and plenipotentiary of the Republic of the Congo in Russia, David Maduka. The parties set a legal framework for reaching bilateral collaboration objectives in various areas. These aim to develop nuclear infrastructure in the Republic of Congo and programmes directed to raise awareness of nuclear technologies and their applications, as well as the usage of radioisotopes and radiation technologies in manufacturing, agriculture, healthcare, education and training of human resources. The parties have also discussed the possibility to construct a Centre for Nuclear Science and Technology with a Russian-designed research reactor in the African state. They want to create joint expert working groups to begin implementation of the MoU. The Republic of Congo has no nuclear energy installations, but the bordering Democratic Republic of the Congo had two functional research reactors. TRICO-I operated between 1959 and 1970 and TRICO-II between 1972 and 1992.