  Traders should look for Saudi Arabia to jockey the oil market  with comments about cutting production once crude prices fall  below $44, RJO Futures senior markets strategist Phillip Streible said Wednesday.  Streible made his comments two days after a story in the OPEC  Bulletin helped cap a three-day oil rally. The article  suggested the producer group was open to working with nonmembers  to curtail output, but an OPEC official on Tuesday said the  organization  of maintaining current production levels.  According to Streible, OPEC and top oil exporter Saudi Arabia  could change their tune if crude falls back into the low-$40 range.  "If you're basing your country's budget on oil prices—and  it's not just the Saudis and OPEC, this is other South American  countries, as well—they're going to collaborate together, and  they're going to try to boost prices up," he told CNBC's "Squawk  on the Street." Read More The signal  to watch for an OPEC cut: RBC's Croft  Bond issues by Saudi Arabia's government are expected to be worth  tens of billions of dollars by the end of 2015 as the state ramps  up debt sales to plug a hole in finances created by low prices  for oil exports.  In July, Riyadh sold its first sovereign bonds since 2007, a 15-billion riyal ($4 billion) issue, after years paying down its  debt to some of the world's lowest levels.  The Saudi strategy of holding oil production steady to  maintain market share and force U.S. producers to balance an  oversupplied market has run out of steam, Streible said.  "The U.S. is extremely efficient on their production in oil. I  think they're going to continue to get better, so you're going to  see oil prices, in my opinion, work their way lower and close in  on that $40 level," he said." Read More Frackers  change methods in 'imploding' oil market  American drillers have driven down the break-even cost of  producing oil through innovation and cost-cutting. U.S. oil  production has only fallen slightly, to 9.3 million barrels per  day in June from April's peak of 9.6 million barrels per day.   Meanwhile, the number of rigs in U.S. oil fields has collapsed by  more than 50 percent in the last year.  "I think that $50 is just too high right now," Streible said. "At  $50 you're going to start seeing the rig count start to go back  up, and you're going to see production levels start to boost  up." —Reuters contributed to this story.