  Saudi Arabia's energy minister Khalid al-Falih said on Sunday  that he believed the oil market would balance itself in 2017 even  if producers did not intervene, and that keeping output at  current levels could therefore be justified.  Under a preliminary agreement reached in September in Algeria,  the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries would  reduce its production to between 32.5 million and 33 million  barrels per day, its first supply curb since 2008.  OPEC oil ministers meet in Vienna on Wednesday in an effort to  finalize that deal; OPEC also wants non-OPEC producers such as  Russia to support the intervention by curbing their output.  Falih said on Sunday Saudi Arabia was sticking to its position on  the Algiers agreement that everyone should cooperate.  "We expect the level of demand to be encouraging in 2017, and the  market will reach balance in 2017 even if there is no  intervention by OPEC. But OPEC intervention aims to expedite this  balance and the market recovery at a faster pace," he said.  Asked whether Saudi Arabia was keeping its output high in  November at around 10.6 million barrels per day, however, Falih  said: "The level of demand for Saudi crude is still high and very  healthy."  "Regardless of Saudi and its market share, I think if we look at  it as an indication of the health and recovery of the oil  markets, it is a positive sign that makes us optimistic about the  market recovery."  "I don't think that we have one path only in OPEC meetings, which  is cutting production - I think maintaining production at current  levels is justifiable, taking into consideration the recovery of  consumption and growth in developing markets and the  United States," he added.  Falih, speaking to reporters at the headquarters of national oil  giant Saudi Aramco, did not elaborate on Saudi Arabia's planned  production levels.  A meeting between OPEC and non-OPEC producers was originally due  to be held on Monday this week, but it was called off after Saudi  Arabia declined to attend; Falih said on Sunday this was because  no agreement within OPEC had been reached so far.  — Follow CNBC International on Twitter and Facebook.