 Saudi Arabia is quietly telling  oil market participants that Riyadh is comfortable with markedly  lower oil prices for an extended period, a sharp shift in policy  that may be aimed at slowing the expansion of rival producers  including those in the U.S. shale patch.  Some OPEC members including  Venezuela are clamoring for urgent  production cuts to push global oil prices back up above $100 a  barrel. But Saudi officials have telegraphed a different message  in private meetings with oil market investors and analysts  recently: the kingdom, OPEC's largest producer, is ready to  accept oil prices below $90 per barrel, and perhaps down to $80,  for as long as a year or two, according to people who have been  briefed on the recent conversations.  The discussions, some of which took place in New York over the  past week, offer the clearest sign yet that the kingdom is  setting aside its longstanding de facto strategy of  holding prices at around $100 a barrel for Brent crude in favor  of retaining market share in years to come.  The Saudis now appear to be betting that a period of lower  prices—which could strain the finances of some members of  the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries—will  be necessary to pave the way for higher revenue in the medium  term, by curbing new investment and further increases in supply  from places like the U.S. shale patch or ultra-deepwater,  according to the sources, who declined to be identified due to  the private nature of the discussions.Read More  Will the plunge in gas prices boost holiday retail?  The conversations with Saudi officials did not offer any specific  guidance on whether - or by how much - the kingdom might agree to  cut output, a move many analysts are expecting in order to shore  up a global market that is producing substantially more crude  than it can consume. Saudi pumps around a third of OPEC's oil, or  some 9.7 million barrels a day.  Asked about coming Saudi output curbs, one Saudi official  responded "What cuts?", according to one of the sources.  Also uncertain is whether the Saudi briefings to oil market  observers represent a new tack it is committed to, or a talking  point meant to cajole other OPEC members to join Riyadh in  eventually tightening the taps on supply.  One source not directly involved in the discussions said the  kingdom does not necessarily want prices to slide further, but is  unwilling to shoulder production cuts unilaterally and is  prepared to tolerate lower prices until others in OPEC commit to  action.  With most other members of the cartel unable or unwilling to  reduce their own output, the group's next meeting on Nov. 27 is  set to be its most difficult in years. OPEC has agreed to cut  production only a handful of times in the past decade, most  recently in the aftermath of the 2008 financial crisis.  On Friday, Venezuela - one of the cartel's most price-sensitive  members—became the first to call openly for emergency action  even earlier. Foreign Minister Rafael Ramirez said "it doesn't  suit anyone to have a price war, for the price to fall below $100  a barrel."  On Sunday, Ali al-Omair, oil minister of Saudi Arabia's core Gulf  ally Kuwait, appeared to be the first to articulate the emerging  view of OPEC's most influential member, saying output cuts would  do little to prop up prices in the face of rising production from  Russia and the United States.Read More  OPEC: Milder winter to pressure oil price further  "I don't think today there is a chance that (OPEC) countries  would reduce their production," state news agency KUNA quoted him  as saying.  Omair said that prices should stop falling at around $76 to $77 a  barrel, citing production costs in places like the United States,  where a shale oil boom has unexpectedly reversed dwindling output  and pushed production to its highest level since the 1980s.  Saudi oil officials have made no public comments on the deepening  swoon in markets. Senior officials did not reply to questions  from Reuters about recent briefings.  Global benchmark Brent crude oil  futures have fallen steadily for almost four months, dropping 23  percent from a June high of over $115 a barrel as fears of a  Mideast supply disruption ebbed, U.S. shale production boomed and  demand from Europe and China showed signs of flagging.  Until recently, Gulf OPEC members have been saying that the price  dip was a temporary phenomenon, betting on seasonal demand in  winter to prop up prices. But a growing number of oil analysts  now see the latest slide as something more than a seasonal  downswing; some say it is the start of a pivotal shift to a  prolonged period of relative abundance.  Rather than fight the decline in prices and cede market share in  the face of growing competition, Saudi Arabia appears to be  preparing traders for a sea change in prices. Read More Why the oil price decline  is failing to boost Europe  The Saudis want the world to know that "nobody should be  surprised" with oil under $90 a barrel, according to one of the  people. Another source suggested that $80 a barrel may now be an  acceptable floor for the kingdom, although several other analysts  said that figure seemed too low. Brent has averaged around $103  since 2010, trading mostly between $100 and $120.  While the latest discussions are the bluntest efforts yet to  signal the shift in Saudi strategy, early signs had already begun  sending shivers through the oil market. In early October the  kingdom cut its official selling prices more sharply than  expected in a bid to maintain customers in Asia, widely seen as  the opening shots in a price war for Asian customers.  "Riyadh's political floor on oil prices is weakening," Robert  McNally, a White House adviser to former President George W. Bush  and president of the Rapidan Group energy consultancy, wrote in a  note to clients following a trip to Saudi last month.  McNally said he is not aware of any specific Saudi price or  timing strategy, but told Reuters that Saudi Arabia "will accept  a price decline necessary to sweat whatever supply cuts are  needed to balance the market out of the U.S. shale oil sector."Read More  Brent slides below $92 as bears linger  As that message began to dawn last week, the price rout  quickened, with Brent lurching to its lowest level since 2010.  "Until about three days ago the absolute and total consensus in  the market was the Saudis would cut," said McNally. That is no  longer a foregone conclusion, he said. "The market suddenly  realizes it is operating without a net."