 Saudi  Arabia is courting investors for what could be a whopping $15 billion-plus bond deal. It's a massive offering that's  likely to see good demand, and possibly more so if OPEC and  global oil producers strike a deal that would stabilize oil  prices.  The offering is an important step forward for the country, which  has big plans to make over its economy and diversify away from its  dependence on crude revenue. The debt offering also comes at a  time when Saudi needs to shore up its finances. The kingdom has  been hit hard by the long period of low oil prices and the  costly war in Yemen. With about  three-quarters of its revenues coming from petroleum, Saudi  Arabia has been running high deficits — $100 billion last year  alone as oil prices plummeted 30 percent.   The debt offering will be the kingdom's first international bond  issuance, and it should become the clear sovereign benchmark,  allowing for broader development of debt capital markets in the  country, according to Standard and Poor's.  "There is a fair amount of demand for Middle Eastern debt," said  Adrian Helfert, head of global fixed income at Amundi Smith  Breeden. "You are getting a little bit of a premium for the oil  downtrend and instability, and you should also get some  compensation in that this is a maiden voyage for this issuer, and  they want to ensure they have open market access."   The deal is estimated at anywhere from $10 billion to $20  billion, a huge offering to bring to the  multi-trillion-dollar emerging market debt  market.   Following offerings from Qatar and Abu Dhabi, the Saudi bonds are  expected to be easily placed. Qatar in May issued $9 billion in  debt, double the amount it initially planned to sell. At the  time, Qatar's 5-year was priced to yield 120 basis points over  the U.S. 5-year Treasury note, and it was yielding about 2.3  percent on Thursday.  Saudi Arabia is holding a call to discuss the bonds with U.S. investors on Monday.  The kingdom is telling investors that it is targeting a balanced  budget by 2020, and expects that if oil prices stay in the  current range, it could reach that target. A road show for the  deal has been underway this past week. 