  Saudi Arabia could still agree to a deal to freeze crude  production — as long as all other oil-producing nations  do the same, the country's Prince Turki Al-Faisal told CNBC on  Friday.   Major oil-producing countries will meet in Algiers this month to  discuss market conditions. Members of the oil-producing cartel  OPEC, plus Russia, are expected to hold discussion on the  sidelines about the possibility of an output freeze to boost  prices.   Several deals have fallen through in the past, in particular  because Saudi Arabia — OPEC's de facto leader — remains  wedded to keeping output high to hold market share. However,  Saudi Arabia is not alone in scuppering deals, including in  February, when Iran refused to join forces with Saudi Arabia,  Russia, Qatar and Venezuela in freezing output.   "What Saudi Arabia is seeking is a holistic approach to the issue  of oil production and prices, not just within OPEC," Al-Faisal  told CNBC on Friday from the Ambrosetti Forum on economics in  Italy.   "All oil producers should have a role in whatever decision is  taken … everybody should play their part," the prince, who  was previous head of the Saudi intelligence service and  ambassador to the U.S., later added. WTI crude futures for  October have rallied sharply this year, but remain far  below the levels above $100 per barrel at which oil traded prior  to the commodities slump that began in July 2014.   OPEC's decision to maintain high levels of production while  international demand growth waned is viewed as a major cause  behind the rout.   Al-Faisal told CNBC on Friday that a return to high oil prices  would be against the interest of poorer oil-importing countries  in Africa, Asia and Latin America.    "Saudi policy since OPEC was established is that prices should be  reasonably set so that the buyer can afford them," he told  CNBC.   The deputy prime minister of Russia — another major  oil-producing country — told CNBC on Friday that a  "good" price for crude was between $50 and $70 per barrel. Arkady  Dvorkovich added that Russia was "ready to sign to have a (crude  production) deal."  WTI crude futures traded at between $43 and $44 per barrel on  Friday. Follow CNBC International on Twitter and Facebook. 