Scottish wind power output breaks 100% output milestone 
10122018

0909
WindWind output in Scotland has broken through the 100% threshold for the first time with 109% of total electricity demand being met from renewables, according to new data.Figures from Weather Energy, part of a wider European project, show electricity generated by wind in November was enough to power nearly 6 million homes - a new record for Scotland. In another milestone, wind production outstripped total electricity demand on 20 out of 30 days.
 
Gina Hanrahan, head of policy at environmental group WWF Scotland, welcomed the contribution made by wind: "Wind power breaking through the magic 100% threshold is truly momentous. For months output has flirted around the 97% mark, so it's fantastic to reach this milestone.
 
"It's also worth noting that 20 out of 30 days wind production outstripped demand.
 
"Most of this is onshore wind, which we know is popular, cheap and effective. But the UK Government needs to allow it to compete with other technologies, by unlocking market access for onshore wind if it's to realise its full potential."
 
Total National Grid demand for November was 1,994,839 megawatt hours (MWh), of which wind power could have provided 109%.
Source: thenational.scot
Figures from Weather Energy, part of a wider European project, show electricity generated by wind in November was enough to power nearly 6 million homes - a new record for Scotland. In another milestone, wind production outstripped total electricity demand on 20 out of 30 days. Gina Hanrahan, head of policy at environmental group WWF Scotland, welcomed the contribution made by wind: "Wind power breaking through the magic 100% threshold is truly momentous. For months output has flirted around the 97% mark, so it's fantastic to reach this milestone. "It's also worth noting that 20 out of 30 days wind production outstripped demand. "Most of this is onshore wind, which we know is popular, cheap and effective. But the UK Government needs to allow it to compete with other technologies, by unlocking market access for onshore wind if it's to realise its full potential." Total National Grid demand for November was 1,994,839 megawatt hours (MWh), of which wind power could have provided 109%.Source: thenational.scot