ScottishPower announces 100% green electricity tariffs 
18022020

0922
RenewableEnergy supplier ScottishPower has announced that from today domestic fixed-price tariffs will be supplied by 100% green electricity generated by the company's own UK windfarms.In a press statement, the company said that the energy generated by the windfarms will be sold only to ScottishPower domestic and commercial customers, enabling the company to reinvest in renewable energy generation.
 
Company CEO Keith Anderson said: "Across our renewables and networks businesses, ScottishPower invests over PS7m every working day to deliver cleaner, smarter power for customers, and we already generate enough renewable electricity to power around 1.5m homes.
 
"This new approach builds on this investment and shows how we're finding new ways to speed up the drive to net zero in the UK."
 
Anderson commented that the company's decision to go 100% renewable in 2018 was also a way to stop greenwashing. He said: "It's important that consumers understand how 'green' their tariff is in terms of supporting the UK renewables industry. My concern is that too many customers think they're buying renewable electricity when all they're buying is a renewable certificate.
Source: power-technology.com
In a press statement, the company said that the energy generated by the windfarms will be sold only to ScottishPower domestic and commercial customers, enabling the company to reinvest in renewable energy generation. Company CEO Keith Anderson said: "Across our renewables and networks businesses, ScottishPower invests over PS7m every working day to deliver cleaner, smarter power for customers, and we already generate enough renewable electricity to power around 1.5m homes. "This new approach builds on this investment and shows how we're finding new ways to speed up the drive to net zero in the UK." Anderson commented that the company's decision to go 100% renewable in 2018 was also a way to stop greenwashing. He said: "It's important that consumers understand how 'green' their tariff is in terms of supporting the UK renewables industry. My concern is that too many customers think they're buying renewable electricity when all they're buying is a renewable certificate.Source: power-technology.com