Sempra Energy to sell Peruvian businesses to China Yangtze for $3.59 bln 
30092019

1642
EnergySempra Energy said on Monday it would sell its Peruvian businesses to a unit of China Yangtze Power Co for $3.59 billion, as part of a planned exit from South America to focus on its core U.S. and Mexican markets.The decision to wind down South American businesses was announced in January following pressure from Elliott and Bluescape Resources at a time when California-based utilities were already under pressure from the devastating wildfires that hit the state.
 
Sempra intends to use the deal proceeds to bolster its balance sheet and fund capital needs for its core utilities in California and Texas, Chief Executive Jeffrey Martin said in a statement on Monday.
 
The company settled with the investors, who at that time held a combined 4.9%, by agreeing to add two new board members and review its liquefied gas portfolio.
 
Sempra also said it was continuing with the sale process for its businesses in Chile, including its 100% stake in Chilquinta Energia SA and Tecnored SA. The company said it expected to announce an agreement in the fourth quarter.
Source: reuters.com
The decision to wind down South American businesses was announced in January following pressure from Elliott and Bluescape Resources at a time when California-based utilities were already under pressure from the devastating wildfires that hit the state. Sempra intends to use the deal proceeds to bolster its balance sheet and fund capital needs for its core utilities in California and Texas, Chief Executive Jeffrey Martin said in a statement on Monday. The company settled with the investors, who at that time held a combined 4.9%, by agreeing to add two new board members and review its liquefied gas portfolio. Sempra also said it was continuing with the sale process for its businesses in Chile, including its 100% stake in Chilquinta Energia SA and Tecnored SA. The company said it expected to announce an agreement in the fourth quarter.Source: reuters.com