Serbia hopes to pump Russian gas through Turkish Stream Pipeline 
23022018

1426
Natural GasThe Serbian government intends to continue buying Russian natural gas and hopes to negotiate part of the supplies via the Turkish Stream gas pipeline.Aleksandar Vucic, Serbian president, declared: "We have reaffirmed our desire to continue cooperation and buy Russian gas in the future. I hope that we will have the opportunity to do this through the Turkish Stream."
 
Vucic said that Serbian and Russian counterparts have talked about the possibilities for a scheduled 105-km inter-connector pipeline from Bulgaria to Serbia, which should become functional in 2020, to convey gas from the Turkish Stream.
 
Last year, Russian President Vladimir Putin stated that Serbia might turn into a significant transit nation for Russian natural gas if it joins the Turkish Stream project.
 
The volume of Russian gas supplies to Serbia is likely to attain 3.5 billion cubic meters by 2022.
 
Previously, Russia's energy giant Gazprom and Hungary inked an accord on Russian gas deliveries to the country through the Turkish Stream gas pipeline via Serbia and Bulgaria.
Aleksandar Vucic, Serbian president, declared: "We have reaffirmed our desire to continue cooperation and buy Russian gas in the future. I hope that we will have the opportunity to do this through the Turkish Stream." Vucic said that Serbian and Russian counterparts have talked about the possibilities for a scheduled 105-km inter-connector pipeline from Bulgaria to Serbia, which should become functional in 2020, to convey gas from the Turkish Stream. Last year, Russian President Vladimir Putin stated that Serbia might turn into a significant transit nation for Russian natural gas if it joins the Turkish Stream project. The volume of Russian gas supplies to Serbia is likely to attain 3.5 billion cubic meters by 2022. Previously, Russia's energy giant Gazprom and Hungary inked an accord on Russian gas deliveries to the country through the Turkish Stream gas pipeline via Serbia and Bulgaria.