Shell aims to sell stake in $1.4 billion wind farm 
04102017

1439
WindShell and its partners Eneco Holdings NV and Mitsubishi Corp. want to sell a stake in two Dutch offshore wind-farm projects likely to cost $1.4 billion to develop. 
The partners are set to diminish their ownership in the Borssele III and IV wind farms by 45 percent.
 
The revenue obtained from the sale would be invested in other projects capable to generate higher gains.  
 
Royal Dutch Shell stated that it pursues the goal of attracting additional investors, without revealing any other details. 
 
The main objective of the company is to concentrate on the first stages of development of the huge wind farms without keeping the assets as long-term operations which allows a firm but sluggish return. 
 
Bloomberg New Energy Finance estimates that the units with the capacity of 700 megawatts would need an investment of $1.4 billion until these are completed in 2020. If to transfer 45 percent stake into cash, it will represent approximately $630 million.
 
Presently, the companies are managing the sale procedure and hope to conclude it until the year is over. 
 The partners are set to diminish their ownership in the Borssele III and IV wind farms by 45 percent. The revenue obtained from the sale would be invested in other projects capable to generate higher gains.   Royal Dutch Shell stated that it pursues the goal of attracting additional investors, without revealing any other details.  The main objective of the company is to concentrate on the first stages of development of the huge wind farms without keeping the assets as long-term operations which allows a firm but sluggish return.  Bloomberg New Energy Finance estimates that the units with the capacity of 700 megawatts would need an investment of $1.4 billion until these are completed in 2020. If to transfer 45 percent stake into cash, it will represent approximately $630 million. Presently, the companies are managing the sale procedure and hope to conclude it until the year is over. 