Shell and Total to develop gas project in Oman 
07112018

0903
Natural GasTotal and Shell as operators will develop several natural gas discoveries located in Oman. 
Oman, the biggest Middle East oil producer outside Opec, signed two separate agreements with France's Total and Anglo Dutch oil major Shell to develop gas projects and fields in the sultanate. The two oil majors will help produce gas from Greater Barik onshore block 6 with respective shares of 25 percent and 75 percent.
 
Total has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the Government of Oman and it expects an initial gas production of around 500 million standard cubic feet of gas per day and a potential to reach 1 billion cf/d at a later stage. The Shell agreement covers proposed projects of upstream gas exploration and development, gas-to-liquids, liquefied natural gas and renewable energy. The two companies didn't provide a timeline for gas production or the cost for the project.
 
"We are hopeful we can use Shell's integrated gas and new energies investment to accelerate Oman's diversification and industrialisation agenda," said Maarten Wetselaar, Shell Integrated Gas & New Energies director. "The proposals could also enhance in-country value, resulting in value and job creation in Oman's economy."
 
"We are pleased to sign this MoU with the Sultanate of Oman that will give us access to new gas resources and the opportunity to develop an integrated gas project," stated Arnaud Breuillac, President Exploration & Production at Total. "We will bring our expertise in LNG and will introduce access to a new gas market for the Sultanate. Developing an LNG bunkering service will generate in-country value and job opportunities, and will support industry diversification through fostering the shipping activity in Oman."
 
Oman is seeking to develop its oil and gas industry to help counter the drop in oil prices which has declined its income from hydrocarbons. BP and Oman Oil Company Exploration & Production approved this year the second phase of the onshore Khazzan gas project, which will start output in 2021. The new investment will boost overall output at the site by 50 per cent to 1.5 billion cf/d.
Source: dealoil.co.uk
 Oman, the biggest Middle East oil producer outside Opec, signed two separate agreements with France's Total and Anglo Dutch oil major Shell to develop gas projects and fields in the sultanate. The two oil majors will help produce gas from Greater Barik onshore block 6 with respective shares of 25 percent and 75 percent. Total has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the Government of Oman and it expects an initial gas production of around 500 million standard cubic feet of gas per day and a potential to reach 1 billion cf/d at a later stage. The Shell agreement covers proposed projects of upstream gas exploration and development, gas-to-liquids, liquefied natural gas and renewable energy. The two companies didn't provide a timeline for gas production or the cost for the project. "We are hopeful we can use Shell's integrated gas and new energies investment to accelerate Oman's diversification and industrialisation agenda," said Maarten Wetselaar, Shell Integrated Gas & New Energies director. "The proposals could also enhance in-country value, resulting in value and job creation in Oman's economy." "We are pleased to sign this MoU with the Sultanate of Oman that will give us access to new gas resources and the opportunity to develop an integrated gas project," stated Arnaud Breuillac, President Exploration & Production at Total. "We will bring our expertise in LNG and will introduce access to a new gas market for the Sultanate. Developing an LNG bunkering service will generate in-country value and job opportunities, and will support industry diversification through fostering the shipping activity in Oman." Oman is seeking to develop its oil and gas industry to help counter the drop in oil prices which has declined its income from hydrocarbons. BP and Oman Oil Company Exploration & Production approved this year the second phase of the onshore Khazzan gas project, which will start output in 2021. The new investment will boost overall output at the site by 50 per cent to 1.5 billion cf/d.Source: dealoil.co.uk