Siemens Gamesa to establish a 39MW wind farm in Vietnam 
04042018

1703
WindSiemens Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) will install and commission the 39 MW Dam Nai wind park in Vietnam for the independent operator, The Blue Circle, with the headquarter in Singapore.Development of this project has been split into two stages. In Phase One, in 2017 Siemens Gamesa installed three SG 2.6-114 turbines that are already functional; and in Phase Two, signed now, the company will provide the remaining 12 turbines for commissioning by October 2018.
 
Siemens Gamesa will also manage the operations and maintenance services at this wind farm, situated in the southern Vietnamese province of Ninh Thuan, for the following 10 years.

Alvaro Bilbao, Siemens Gamesa CEO (Asia Pacific) declared: "We are committed to Vietnam as a market and we want to be our customers' preferred partner in developing wind power projects. The company recently opened a permanent office in the country as part of that plan."
 
SGRE forecasts substantial growth in Vietnam in the next years as the country begins to use some of the best wind resources in South East Asia, the objective being to install 1 GW by 2020.
Development of this project has been split into two stages. In Phase One, in 2017 Siemens Gamesa installed three SG 2.6-114 turbines that are already functional; and in Phase Two, signed now, the company will provide the remaining 12 turbines for commissioning by October 2018. Siemens Gamesa will also manage the operations and maintenance services at this wind farm, situated in the southern Vietnamese province of Ninh Thuan, for the following 10 years.
Alvaro Bilbao, Siemens Gamesa CEO (Asia Pacific) declared: "We are committed to Vietnam as a market and we want to be our customers' preferred partner in developing wind power projects. The company recently opened a permanent office in the country as part of that plan." SGRE forecasts substantial growth in Vietnam in the next years as the country begins to use some of the best wind resources in South East Asia, the objective being to install 1 GW by 2020.