  Iran's government actually benefits from U.S-led sanctions  because they provide a convenient excuse for the country's  economic difficulties, an adviser to a former Iranian president  told CNBC.   Large swathes of Iran's economy have been hit by long-term  sanctions imposed by the U.S. and other countries in a bid to  halt Iran's progress to building its own nuclear weapons.   Iran, which Iran insists that its nuclear industry is  solely for peaceful means, and officials from the U.S., Russia,  China, Britain, France and Germany are locked in negotiations to  hammer out a permanent deal that would see sanctions lifted, but  some hardliners are fighting hard against giving up too much of  the program.  In response to the stalemate with his ministers, Iranian  President Hassan Rouhani called over the weekend for the issue to  be put to public referendum, rather than parliamentary  vote. Read MoreIran's president threatens vote on  nuclear deal  Saeed Laylaz, an economist who advised Iran's former president,  Mohammad Khatami, told CNBC that many inside the Iranian ruling  regime actually "love" the sanctions, because they provided a  smokescreen for their mismanagement of the economy.   "Inside the government of Iran, there have been, and there are, a  lot of people who love this sanction, because they need it…  the Islamic Republic of Iran can hide its mismanagement of the  country and organised looting of Iranian wealth," he told CNBC on  Tuesday.   Laylaz, a pro-reformist, added that the U.S. also benefited from  its poor relationship with Iran, which provided an excuse for its  continued military presence in the Middle East.    "The Islamic Republic of Iran and the United States need  the radicalism of each other…. A controllable radicalism is  useful for both sides, because the U.S can say that in the  absence of Bin Laden or Saddam Hussein, they can say they (Iran)  are radical and they (the U.S.) have to be militarily in the  Persian Gulf and the Middle East. And the Islamic Republic of  Iran can hide its mismanagement," he said. Read MoreTop 5 cybersecurity risks  for 2015  In 2013, the year Rouhani came to power, the Iranian economy  shrunk by 1.9 percent. However, gross domestic product  grew  by 1.5 percent last year and is seen expanding 2.2 percent in  2015 by the International Monetary Fund. It continues to battle  high inflation and unemployment.   "The economic problems of Iran basically come from inside of the  economy," said Laylaz. "We have had a lack of investment…  Our main problem over the past 10 years has been a lack of  productivity; you know the productivity trend in Iran has been  negative for the past four or five years ago."  With that in mind, Laylaz said that the benefits of a nuclear  agreement and consequent ending to sanctions should not be  overstated.   "Nuclear talk cannot solve this problem… I am against the  idea of trying to exaggerate the impact that removing the  sanctions on the economy of Iran will have in the future, because  in this case if there is be no positive trend, everybody will  blame Mr. Rouhani."   "Less than this amount means less projects of the government,  which means less economic growth and less job creation." Read MoreIran says Saudi  Arabia should move to curb oil price fall