Sonatrach, Total, Repsol sign new gas deal in Algeria 
12062018

0926
Natural GasAlgeria's state oil company, Sonatrach, Total and Repsol on Monday signed a new concession contract for the Tin Fouye Tabnkoft (TFT) onshore gas and condensate field in Algeria, extending their participation for another 25 years.The extension for the license exploitation has also been signed by the National Agency for the Valorization of Hydrocarbon Resources (Alnaft). It will become effective upon the approval by appropriate Algerian authorities. Once that's done, Sonatrach will hold a 51% stake, Total 26.4% and Repsol 22.6%.
 
The partners will carry out drilling and development investments needed to develop additional reserves estimated at over 250 million barrels of oil-equivalent (MMBOE). Total said these investments will allow the partners to maintain the field's production, which is currently over 80,000 BOE/d, Kallanish Energy reports.
 
Sonatrach said separately the three firms will invest $324 million to keep output at 3 billion cubic meters per year (Bcm/y) of gas for the next six years.
 
Total CEO Patrick Pouyanne said the agreements mark a new milestone in the historic partnership with Sonatrach and is in line with the group's strategy to grow its gas production in competitive conditions.
 
"As a historical partner of the TFT field, Total will continue to provide the best of its technological expertise to keep developing the reserves of this gas field," he added.
Source: kallanishenergy.com
The extension for the license exploitation has also been signed by the National Agency for the Valorization of Hydrocarbon Resources (Alnaft). It will become effective upon the approval by appropriate Algerian authorities. Once that's done, Sonatrach will hold a 51% stake, Total 26.4% and Repsol 22.6%. The partners will carry out drilling and development investments needed to develop additional reserves estimated at over 250 million barrels of oil-equivalent (MMBOE). Total said these investments will allow the partners to maintain the field's production, which is currently over 80,000 BOE/d, Kallanish Energy reports. Sonatrach said separately the three firms will invest $324 million to keep output at 3 billion cubic meters per year (Bcm/y) of gas for the next six years. Total CEO Patrick Pouyanne said the agreements mark a new milestone in the historic partnership with Sonatrach and is in line with the group's strategy to grow its gas production in competitive conditions. "As a historical partner of the TFT field, Total will continue to provide the best of its technological expertise to keep developing the reserves of this gas field," he added.Source: kallanishenergy.com