Oil prices will stage a modest recovery in the fourth  quarter to average around $50 a barrel, but additional gains will  hinge on OPEC not only ratifying a deal in late November to cut  supply but sticking to those limits, a CNBC survey showed.Brent crude, the benchmark for two-thirds of  the world's traded oil, will likely average $49.60 a barrel for  the fourth quarter, up from almost $47 a barrel in the prior  quarter, the survey of 31 commodity strategists, analysts and  economists showed. OPEC agreed on September 28 to cut output to a range of  32.50 million barrels a day and 33.0 million from 33.2 million barrels a day, its first  output cut since the 2008 financial crisis. Though last month's agreement was only provisional, it was  enough to boost prices by about 10 percent. Benchmark crude hit a  one-year high on October 10 suggesting OPEC succeeded in putting  a short-term floor in the market, said Johannes Benigni of JBC  Energy. Downside pressure "is limited by OPEC's renewed intention  to manage the market price" despite 'massive' volumes of oil in  storage, he said.  Many survey respondents, however, likened OPEC to a central bank  'jawboning' oil prices higher by using vaguely worded pledges to  intervene. Such short-termism will ultimately be self-defeating,  said Commerzbank's Eugen Weinberg. Higher prices would  incentivize more non-OPEC supply to come to market, pushing back  the re-balancing process to the second-half of 2017 "or later"  Weinberg said.  On balance, many are deeply skeptical that the oil market is on  the verge of a meaningful recovery based on OPEC's poor track  record on actual compliance with production cuts agreed on paper.  CNBC contributor Anthony Grisanti, a 30-year veteran of the  futures industry and founder and president of GRZ Energy,  said prices risked falling back to the mid to low forties if  OPEC underwhelmed.  "Sure, the rhetoric can keep us supported until the meeting in  November but when the numbers start to come out in December and  January and demand drops seasonally anyway, prices are going to  fall," Grisanti said.  "How many times has OPEC led us down this path?"  OPEC does have an uphill task. Most contentiously, member states  must hash out who cuts the most supply when they meet in Vienna  on November 30. But with members pulling in different directions  and producers outside the group, namely Russia and  the U.S., jockeying to  poach their rivals' market share, many are bracing for  disappointment.  "It will be a tall order for OPEC to agree on who will cut what  when they meet in Vienna in November," said Victor Shum of IHS  Energy Insight. "Individual quota allocations have always been  contentious among OPEC members, and there is no evident reason  for this to be easier this time around."  On the flipside, prices could test $60 a barrel by the end of the  year if OPEC delivers a concrete deal and follows through with  it, said Amrita Sen at Energy Insights.  Convincing Russia and other suppliers outside OPEC to cut back  remains a huge challenge. "Even if OPEC and non-OPEC producers  seem on track to define quotas, U.S. production should be  resilient," said Christophe Barraud, chief economist at Market  Securities in Paris.  Tracking oil tanker flows will be central in determining whether  OPEC is serious in stabilizing supply balances, or if it's still  maxing out production to protect market share. Given the lag  time, OPEC cuts - if they are ratified on November 30 - will only  be felt materially in early 2017. That's when the market will  take a "magnifying glass" to tanker traffic, said independent  analyst Vandana Hari of Vanda Insights.  Follow CNBC International on Twitter and Facebook.