  A borrowing bonanza in the Middle East is laying bare just how varied the risks are  on the Arab Peninsula.  In Qatar, billions of dollars in recently raised sovereign  debt will help to accommodate soccer fans when FIFA comes to  town. In Bahrain, bond proceeds are expected to keep a lid on  simmering social unrest.  A second year of low oil prices has left the Arab states of the  Persian Gulf with lingering budget deficits, forcing them to  borrow money from international lenders. While the six nations of the Gulf  Cooperation Council are often discussed as a whole, their  experience in debt markets and the implications of the borrowing  binge for each country is anything but uniform.  Some Gulf states have strong credit ratings but lack experience  managing big debt loads. Others are avid borrowers but could see  their costs rise as debt becomes larger in proportion to their  economic output.  The borrowing also comes as Gulf nations embark on ambitious  plans to diversify their economies to become less reliant on oil.  Moody's warned in August that the short-term relief brought by  borrowing could cause Gulf states to delay much-needed  reforms.OPEC's decision last week to cut oil production will also bolster the Gulf nations, but Moody's warned the countries would "continue to face economic, fiscal and external challenges" even as crude prices recover to a range of $50 to $60 a barrel.  With oil prices expected to remain relatively low for years, the  International Monetary Fund projects the annual deficits for the Gulf  Cooperation Council and Algeria to total $900 billion between  2016 and 2021. Meanwhile, government debt is expected to grow  from 13 percent of these economies last year to 45 percent in  2021.  The implications of taking on more debt vary across the Gulf  Cooperation Council, comprised of Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar,  Saudi  Arabia and the United Arab Emirates.  Among the nations with little experience in international debt  markets is Saudi Arabia. The kingdom raised $10 billion in loans  from a consortium of banks this spring and set a new record for  emerging market debt issuance in October with a $17.5  billion sovereign bond sale — its first ever.  Kuwait is also gearing up for its first sovereign bond issuance  next year, and is expected to raise about $10 billion.  Moody's is closely watching how those countries develop the  institutions and management practices to service their new  debt, said Steffen Dyck, a senior credit officer at the  ratings agency.  "You can issue debt but the question is also how you manage this  debt," he said.  One nation with a proven history of managing debt, according to  Moody's, is Qatar. It has raised $43.3 billion in sovereign debt  and syndicated loans in the last decade, according to data provided by Dealogic.   Earlier this year, Qatar drummed up a record-setting $9 billion in  sovereign debt. That is not only being used to plug a deficit  — estimated by the World Bank to reach $8 billion this year  — but also to keep up a brisk pace of infrastructure  spending as it prepares to host the 2022 FIFA World Cup.  Despite their varied experience managing debt, analysts typically  see few immediate red flags in Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, Qatar and the UAE. But Bahrain and Oman are a different story.  The two nations have lower credit ratings and face higher risks  of social unrest than other Gulf states.  Discontent makes it difficult to significantly cut civil service  salaries or lay off bureaucrats, but if Oman and Bahrain do not cut spending, it will be hard for them to improve their  finances, said Coline Schep, an associate in Eurasia Group's  Middle East and North Africa practice.  "They are starting to put themselves into a bit of a vicious  circle because the higher their debt to GDP goes, the worse that  reflects on their credit rating," she said. "That is going to be  making any future borrowing for them more costly."  That said, Bahrain can continue to depend on support from Saudi  Arabia. Riyadh intervened when the Arab Spring swept through  Bahrain, and the Saudis continue to worry about their neighbor's  restive Shiite Muslim majority, Schep said.  Some of the Gulf countries appear to have met their funding needs  for the moment, but others are expected to go back to the well in  2017.  U.S. bond yields have been on the rise as investors anticipate an  interest rate increase from the Federal Reserve as early as next  week. Expectations for an easier path to tax reform and  infrastructure spending after a Republican sweep of the  White House and Congress only add to the case for higher rates  and a stronger U.S. dollar.  That environment sets up potential capital outflows from emerging  markets as money returns to safe haven U.S. bonds. It also  increases the cost of borrowing and servicing debt for developing  nations.  The election of Donald Trump, an  unpredictable businessman with a protectionist streak, also  raises questions for riskier investments such as emerging market debt.  "While, in principle, higher U.S. growth should have positive  spillover effects on [emerging] economies through  increased trade, this picture is murkier this time around given  the uncertainty about Trump's intended trade policies," JPMorgan  said in a report.  If the market gets a milder Trump who focuses on domestic policy,  risk sentiment may be positive, said Anthony Simond, investment  analyst at Aberdeen Asset Management. But if Trump enforces the  high tariffs on foreign goods he has threatened, and if he rips up  international trade deals, sentiment may turn south.  That is particularly important for Gulf state bonds, according to  Simond. Because many of them are not bundled into major emerging  market debt indexes, they do not have a "natural investor," he  said.  "When times are good, when people want diversification, people  might go to the Middle East," he said.  "When times are bad, maybe that marginal demand for the bonds  isn't there."