  There's joy in the U.S. oil patch, as other oil-producing  countries joined OPEC in a deal to slash crude production.U.S. crude futures soared Monday, rallying 3.2 percent at  midday to $53.17 per barrel, and energy stocks also jumped. The  S&P energy sector was up 1.4 percent following the deal,  which OPEC pushed hard to get in an effort to end a global oil  glut and boost prices.  "In the sheiks versus shale fight, score one for the shale  patch," said Michael Cohen, head of energy commodities research  at Barclays. "It's not really that simple, but clearly the  Saudis have stuff to gain from this. ... They have things  they need to achieve, from their social constraints and things  get worse when prices get low. It's not a zero sum for sheiks  versus shale, but shale certainly is the biggest winner. They  were looking at a picture where prices could have conceivably  been $40 to $45 for another year."   There are already signs of life in shale sector, with rigs  beginning to come back on line at a faster pace. Just the  discussions among global oil producers helped lift prices, well  before they reached a deal. According to Baker Hughes, the  industry added 21 rigs last week to 498, the highest level since  January but still well below the 2014 high of 1,600.  "Shale is coming back. Shale will come back with a vengeance.  Shale, in my view is a technology in its earliest stages. We are  not in the seventh or eighth inning. We are probably in the  third. The recovery rate in shale is still low. What we get out  of this resource with today's technology is only 5 percent," said  Fadel Gheit, energy industry analyst at Oppenheimer.  U.S. oil production topped out at 9.6 million barrels a day in  2015, but it has stabilized at about 8.5 million recently.  Cohen said the industry is likely to add 250,000 to  300,000 barrels a day of production in 2017, but it won't  return to 2015 levels until later on. "I think we'll set the  stage for it in 2017, if prices remain in the $55 to $60 range on  average or higher," he said. He expects West Texas Intermediate  oil to be at $55/$56 per barrel in 2017.   Over the weekend, Russia and several other big non-OPEC producers  agreed to trim production by 558,000 barrels a day, on top of the  1.2 million barrels a day OPEC said it would cut.  "Prices will go higher but not in a straight line. It never does,  and it never will," said Gheit. He said OPEC and the other  producers are unlikely to stick to their promised cuts for more  than a few months. The deal also does not address the hundreds of  millions of barrels in inventories.    The risk to prices is that OPEC's deal is not adhered to, and  producers add to production, keeping the supply high without any  pickup in demand.    Francisco Blanch, of Bank of America Merrill Lynch said he  expects producers to stick to the OPEC deal, and that should  result in a $70 oil price next year. He expects the U.S. to add  600,000 barrels a day of additional production from current  levels, by the end of next year.  "We should be under no illusion that this is a gift to all    producers. I think it's a gift to some producers. It's something  OPEC is doing for itself. While it's benefiting certain sections  of the U.S. shale market, it's not going to benefit everyone. I  think higher cost producers still won't be able to make ends  meet," said Blanch, head of global commodities and derivatives  research.But prices should remain high enough to help the U.S. industry,  which was the upstart that helped create a global glut in the  first place.   The U.S. industry surprised the world with the magnitude of its  output. Two years ago, OPEC, led by Saudi Arabia, attempted to  stop shale and other high cost producers by abandoning its  strategy of controlling output and instead let the market set  prices.  That led to a collapse in prices into the $20s per barrel,  resulting in budget pain among the global producers and large  losses for oil companies.   "Fifty-dollar oil will put them all back in business," Gheit said  of the U.S. drillers. "It is the break-even point which continues  to decline."The election of Donald Trump is also expected to provide some  positives for the industry, as he supports reducing regulation  and increasing the construction of pipelines.   Cohen agrees the strongest U.S. producers will come back first,  while the weaker ones remain constrained by poor financial  positions. The latter will have to add production more  slowly.  "There's a whole host of other companies that were part of the  growth story over the 2013 to 2015 time frame that added a  significant amount of volume, and those guys were the ones that  were really hurting over the last two years," Cohen said. "I  think there's a big question of whether producers will spend  outside of cash flow or within cash flows."  Drilling costs dropped dramatically as the industry cut back in  response to crashing prices, but as more rigs come back on line,  it will be a challenge for producers to manage rising costs. That  will be a factor that helps determine how much oil will be  produced.  "There's a lag with everything. Just as there was a lag when the  industry stopped. It took a year to start to see declines. It's  the same thing on the way back up. It's kind of a big ship that  isn't going to turn quickly. It's not a light switch," said  Cohen. "I think the issue for the Saudis was no one really  understands the way shale responds to higher prices. They  certainly didn't understand how it responds to lower  prices."