July was the hottest month ever recorded on the planet. The  epicenter of the global heat wave was Kuwait, where the  temperature in Mitribah hit 129.2 degrees, making it the hottest  place on Earth.  Like other countries in the Persian Gulf sweltering from high  temperatures and humidity, Kuwait is positioning its economy for  a century of steadily rising heat waves so severe that parts of  the Middle East may become unlivable outdoors.  By 2100, the desert cities near the Arabian Sea, including Abu  Dhabi, Dubai and Doha, may regularly experience days of  temperatures that feel like 165 degrees, when heat hits 95  degrees and humidity is taken into account, based on research and  statements by scientists at California's Loyola Marymount  University and MIT.  Even the fittest humans can't survive those temperatures for more  than a few hours outside. (It's worth noting that parts of far  northern climes in North America, Europe and Asia are also  technically uninhabitable outside for much of the year.)  The buckle on the world's sunbelt, petro-state Kuwait is looking  to cope with the trend — and perhaps capitalize on it. It has a  goal to supply 15 percent of its energy with renewables by 2030, up from  1 percent last year, and to become a leader in technology that prepares  for the new future. More from Global Investing Hot Spots: The  trillion-dollar pipeline in the Mideast no one is talking  about Is  the 'Trump effect' behind the billion-dollar move into Canadian  stocks?   Guess which companies are stockpiling $2.4 trillion in offshore  profits  The country last year signed an agreement with Spain's TSK Group  for a $385 million solar plant that will produce up to 50  megawatts and come online in 2017. A planned technology park in  the Al Shagaya desert will also include a 10-megawatt solar  photovoltaic station and 10-megawatt wind-power stations,  according to Oxford Research.  But the solar power push is just one part of what Kuwait needs to  do to move away from oil that accounts for about 60 percent of  its GDP and about 95 percent of government revenue, according to  OPEC and the IMF.  Kuwait, like other Gulf countries, has long seen the need to  diversify its economy. Now the likely long-term drop in oil  prices to less than $50 a barrel due to a global oversupply means  it needs to move much faster.  "We are going to go bankrupt if we don't change," said Abdulaziz  Al Loughani, an advisor to Kuwait's $7 billion National Fund for  Small and Medium Enterprise Development (SME), aimed at investing  in and spurring small businesses. "I think we have the courage  not to be taken by our egos."   Lucky for Kuwait, it has a big asset to leverage: money. With one  of the world's largest sovereign wealth funds, at nearly $600  billion, Kuwait is pouring cash into a three-track approach to  diversify the economy: It's trying to encourage entrepreneurship,  and it's investing heavily in its own infrastructure — from  renewable energy plants to workforce training to hospitals.  That's opening opportunities for companies from other countries.  For instance, the government is contracting with outside  companies and investing $5.2 billion to build 17 hospitals. Nine  of the hospitals will boost the number of available beds by 3,334 and create an estimated  15,000 new jobs, according to Oxford Research Group.  The third leg of the strategy is that Kuwait has set up  sector-specific funds, including in renewable energy and life  sciences, to invest in companies in other countries. It hopes to  draw technological innovation home.  An example of the technology strategy is the investment  by EnerTech, Kuwait's $50 million renewable energy fund, in  Kinetic Renewable Energy Services, a Dubai-based developer of  renewable power plants. Kinetic has a $150 million pipeline of  projects, according to Abdullah Al-Mutairi, CEO of EnerTech. The  renewable-energy fund has seven companies in its portfolio. If  EnerTech finds a promising technology, Al-Mutairi said, Kuwait  will help it set up manufacturing and distribution in Kuwait and  other Gulf countries.  Overall, Kuwait's moves are showing some promise, though it has a  long way to go. There is the planned renewable-energy park, a new  start-up scene that is encouraging entrepreneurship and some  examples of successes in growing private-sector companies.  For instance, the country's life science's fund, Kuwait Life  Sciences, helped former Pfizer executives who wanted to build a  platform to import drugs into the Middle East establish a  venture, New Bridge Pharmaceuticals, said Mussaad M. Al-Razouki,  the fund's business development officer. An Irish company, Elan  Science One, purchased a majority stake in the company, now  valued at more than $100 million, said Al-Razouki.  Diversification can't come too fast for Kuwait. The IMF forecasts  Kuwait's GDP growth at less than 2 percent a year for  2016–2017, far below the peak levels of more than 15 percent  during the oil boom of 2000–2010.  Fiscal 2016 saw a $15.3 billion budget deficit after 16 years of  surpluses due to the decline in oil revenue, which led to an  increase in gas prices and talk by high-ranking government  officials of cuts to lavish benefits for Kuwait's 1.3 million  citizens that include interest-free housing loans and free  education. (The country is also home to about 2.9 million foreign  workers.)  It tends to be in the middle of rankings of economic freedom. For  instance, the World Economic Forum ranked it 34th for global competitiveness last year, up  from 36th in 2013–2014. It has low scores on innovation and  technological readiness — and it's a relatively small  market.  But its pile of cash, built up during the budget surplus years,  means a lot of opportunity for companies that want to do  business in or with the emirate. Foreign direct investment into  Kuwait is currently low, at $293 million last year, according to  the UN Conference on Trade and  Development. That's compared with almost $5.5 billion worth  of investment Kuwait made abroad.  Kuwait hasn't taken the dramatic steps of many of the emirates in  the United Arab Emirates, like eschewing most or all taxes,  opening up ownership to foreigners or establishing robust-free  trade zones.  One of Kuwait's biggest efforts now is its SME fund.To change the long-standing practice of young Kuwaitis to picky  cushy government jobs over the trials of going into business,  Kuwait is using the first $170 million of its $7 billion small-business fund to establish workforce training and business  incubation programs.  Out of a workforce of about 330,000, nearly 80 percent of people are  government employees, based on an analysis provided by Al  Loughani. The fund has a plan to privatize 50 gas stations and  find entrepreneurs willing to run convenience stores and  restaurants. It is also working on training and incubation  programs.  Kuwait's start-up sector is small, but more Kuwaitis are  comfortable with e-commerce, Al Loughani said. On average,  Kuwaitis own more than two mobile phones apiece. He is one of the  rare private sector success stories in Kuwait as the former CEO  of Talabat, a food-delivery company, which was purchased in 2015,  about 10 years after its founding, by Berlin-based Rocket  Internet.  Other companies are springing up in the same space, including one  called Carriage, an online restaurant delivery service. "After  three years of working, we had 2,000 transactions a day. After  four months of work, Carriage has 1,500 orders a day," he said.  Kuwait has long been known as a slow-moving business culture. But  the advantage of a small economy is that people can unite around  a shared goal: Renewable energy and the other changes are so far  being embraced.  Al-Mutairi of the renewable-energy fund says Kuwaitis are firmly  behind the shifts away from its oil base. "Kuwaitis are now very  supportive of renewable and becoming very familiar with it," he  said. "All Kuwaiti companies and individuals are working to  achieve this target by 2030."— By Elizabeth MacBride, special to CNBC.com