Three OPEC members expected to be exempt from a deal to limit  production and Iraq ratcheted up output by a total of roughly  300,000 barrels a day in September, according to the cartel's  monthly oil market report.  The increase drove total OPEC production to an eight-year high,  despite a sizable decline in output from top exporter Saudi  Arabia. But perhaps more worrisome than the headline output  figure is the prospect that three of the countries —  Iran, Libya and Nigeria — will restore a substantial  portion of sidelined supply.  This has been a growing concern for market watchers. Goldman  Sachs has cautioned a thaw in conflicts in oil-exporting  countries could put more crude into an oversupplied market and  complicate efforts by OPEC to scale back output.  Last month, members struck an agreement in Algeria to cut supply  by several hundred thousand barrels a day, though Iran, Libya and  Nigeria may not be subject to quotas under the terms of a final  deal to be hammered out by OPEC's annual meeting on Nov. 30.  Saudi and Russian officials said Tuesday they would also  work to secure cuts from non-OPEC producers, as well.  Saudi Energy Minister Khalid al-Falih has said Iran, Nigeria and  Libya could be allowed to pump "at maximum levels that make  sense" given their special situations.  Libya increased production by more than 92,000 barrels a day last  month after resuming crude exports from ports once closed amid  the country's civil strife. Nigeria's output was up about 95,000  barrels as the western African nation brings back production after a series of attacks on oil infrastructure carried out  by militants seeking a greater share of the country's fossil fuel  wealth for impoverished Delta residents.  Andrew Lipow, president of Lipow Oil Associates, said this "puts OPEC in an even tougher spot because they have to cut  even more production to accommodate the resumption of sales out  of Libya and Nigeria."  Meanwhile, Iran is continuing to restore production after the  lifting of international sanctions in January. The country tacked on a  little more than 21,000 barrels a day, roughly in line with gains in  the previous two months. Many believe Tehran will soon hit the  upward limits of its production capacity.  Iraq accounted for the largest increase in September, with  production up 105,000 barrels. The country's oil minister, Jabbar  al-Luaibi, raised concerns just hours after news of the Algeria  agreement broke. He said Iraq, the No. 2 OPEC producer, could  walk away from a deal if the cartel did not adjust the way it  calculates current output.  "The fact is that the OPEC production is just a free for all over  the next couple of months as they try to produce at maximum  rates," before oil limits are enforced, Lipow said.  Saudi Arabia saw the largest production declines in September,  with output down more than 87,000 barrels a day. The kingdom  experiences a seasonal downshift in production at this time of  year as electricity demand for air conditioning winds down at the  end of the punishingly hot summer season.  On Tuesday, Bob McNally, founder and president of energy  consulting firm The Rapidan Group, told CNBC any so-called freeze by  Saudi Arabia should be considered "smoke and mirrors" because the country will merely be returning to a normal rate of production after helping to push OPEC output up by about 900,000 barrels a day since February.