After nine months of low global growth, political upsets such as  Brexit, and turmoil in the markets there have been some winners  and losers among Asia's major indexes. CNBC takes a look at who's risen and who's fallen.  With growth in developed markets slowing drastically, investors  have been searching for growth in the developing world. Pakistan's benchmark Karachi Stock Exchange 100 Index was the  region's best performer, with year-to-date gains of nearly 23.19   percent, compared to a 10.82 percent gain on the broad MSCI Asia  Pacific ex Japan index.   Though Pakistan's political stability can sometimes be volatile  analysts have said the country's fundamentals were relatively  stable.  "Preliminary GDP (gross domestic product) growth for fiscal 16  (ended June 2016) accelerated to a seven-year high of 4.7  percent, although it may be revised down to 4.5 percent," said  analysts at Standard Chartered bank in a note this  week.   Under Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif, Pakistan avoided an external  payments crisis due to an International Monetary Fund loan  program and investments from China.  Sweetening the deal was the fact that earlier this year, Pakistan  gained entry into one of the world's most popular emerging  markets equity indices - the MSCI Emerging Markets Index - while  its ally China was snubbed.   Following in Pakistan's footsteps was the Vietnam VN-Index, which  gained 18.91 percent year-to-date.   "Vietnam remains one of the bright spots in Asia," said Vishnu  Varathan, senior economist at Mizuho Bank.   He explained that as China shifts from a labor-intensive economy  to a higher-skilled one, Vietnam, with its low wage costs and  relatively good infrastructure proposition, was reaping benefits  as more companies shifted their manufacturing plants to the  country.  However, Varathan added, the country needed to fortify its  banking sector.  Indonesia's Jakarta Composite was up 16.80 percent for  year-to-date, with the IMF seeing the country's growing by a  healthy 4.9 percent this year and 5.3 percent in  2017.   This was despite the low price of crude oil walloping other OPEC  nations - Indonesia is the only OPEC member country in Asia  Pacific and exported $6.4 billion worth of petroleum in 2015  according to OPEC data.  The Standard Chartered analysts said resilient private  consumption, less negative external demand and private investment  were likely to underpin growth in the second half, though at a  more moderate pace, which would offset a lower government  contribution.China's  was the worst performer in the region,  down 15.09 percent year-to-date. The other lesser well-known  index, Shenzhen Composite, fell 13.59 percent, after being the  best performer in the region in 2015.    At the start of the year, Chinese markets sold off notably in the  first week of January before steadying; since then, prolonged  liquidity concerns in the financial sector have kept investors on  edge.  However, China's economic outlook appeared to have stabilized,  according to ANZ analysts. They said in a note this week the  growth momentum in the world's second largest economy was stable,  and backed by the "strong performance of the housing  market."   "The vibrancy of the property market is a double-edged sword.  Massive property sales have been a growth driver, but this has  resulted in surging mortgage loans and financial risk. Under this  backdrop, the People's Bank of China is likely to maintain a  neutral policy stance," the analysts said.   Japan's benchmark  was down 13.57 percent year-to-date  as the country's policymakers grapple with a moribund economy  where despite adopting negative deposit rates, inflation remains  well below the Bank of Japan's 2 percent target.  Shares have also come under pressure from a relatively stronger  yen, since the introduction of the negative deposit rates in late  January.   "We expect subdued GDP growth of 0.7 percent this year and 0.6  percent in 2017," said the Standard Chartered analysts. "Expect  private consumption and business investment to remain anemic in  Q4."   The final quarter of the year look set to be filled with several  key risk events that could keep investors on edge.   This includes the U.S. presidential election in November, a  possible interest rate hike from the Federal Reserve in December,  ongoing issues surrounding European banks, low growth and  inflation momentum in Japan, as well as rising geopolitical  tensions in the region in the Indian subcontinent and in the  Philippines.   "While the period for seasonal share market weakness (August to  October) so far has passed without a major mishap, we remain  cautious on shares in the short term as event risk remains high  for the months ahead," said Shane Oliver, head of investment  strategy and chief economist at AMP Capital.   — Follow CNBC International on Twitter and Facebook.