 Crude oil broke  below $40 per barrel Wednesday afternoon, hitting the lowest  level since August as the dollar remains strong and economic  growth appears to be weak.  Crude found its lows shortly after the 2 p.m. EST release of the  's "Beige Book." This summarizing report stated  that "economic activity increased at a modest pace in most  regions of the country" in October and November. Disappointing  economic data should tend to be bearish for oil, as it  translates into decreased demand.  Meanwhile, the dollar index hit a 12-year high Wednesday, on the back of  a speech from Fed Chair Janet Yellen that continued to  increase the perceived chance of a December rate hike. A strong greenback should tend to put oil under pressure.  At this point, many market participants foresee continued  pressure on oil prices.   "I anticipate a quick push down to $38 over the next few sessions  due to building inventories, slowing demand and OPEC inability  to cut production," RJO Futures strategist Phillip Streible wrote  to CNBC, referring to the Friday meeting of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting  Countries.  Read More Why OPEC's  plan to balance oil markets backfired   Pointing to the increases seen in oil inventories despite record  demand, Stephen Schork of The Schork Report said that the "market  is still favoring bears at this point."  U.S. crude oil inventories remain at record-high levels and rose  by 1.2 million barrels in the week ended Nov. 27, according  to an EIA report released Wednesday. Read More  Thanks to strong supply, Schork told CNBC in a phone interview that he sees oil going  into the "mid-$30s, and perhaps revisiting the 2009 lows of $32,  $33" per barrel.  Some, like Todd  Gordon of TradingAnalysis.com, are even more bearish. Gordon  is sticking to a previous call for crude oil to fall to $26.  "Crude oil is getting hit on a stronger dollar. Now as the  reality of higher interest rates is setting in for stock  investors, the demand is starting to weigh on crude oil from the  other side. ... I think the downside is in track here for some  time," Gordon said Wednesday on CNBC's "Trading Nation."  On the other hand, Boris Schlossberg of BK Asset Management  believes oil could stage a temporary turnaround. The OPEC  meeting, along with traders covering short positions, may end up  driving a short-term bounce in oil prices, he said.   "I actually think we might see a little bit of a pause here,"  Schlossberg said on "Trading Nation." "In the long term, oil is  definitely headed to the $20s. But I think we're going to have  some kind of a short squeeze coming up very soon and I wouldn't  want to be short just now." 