  When the energy industry gathers in Houston Monday, the big topic  will be whether oil prices are actually close to stabilizing  after months of painful declines.  The 35th annual IHS CERAWeek conference comes just as the  world's largest oil producers — Saudi Arabia and Russia — are talking  about ways to support oil prices through a production freeze.  While a cap on output will not reduce the world's oil glut, the idea has  certainly helped lift crude prices off their lows, but WTI crude was still trading below $30 on Friday afternoon, down near-4 percent.On Friday, Alexey Texler, Russia's first deputy energy minister, was quoted  as saying that the world's excess oil supply could be  halved if the freeze takes effect. Qatar and Venezuela joined Saudi Arabia and non-OPEC member Russia in the proposed  agreement earlier this week.  The very individuals that could comment on this proposal will be  attending the meeting: Saudi Arabian Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi and  OPEC Secretary General Abdalla Salem El-Badri. El-Badri speaks  Monday afternoon, and Naimi speaks Tuesday morning at 9 a.m.  CT.   The idea of a production freeze has many proponents, including  Daniel Yergin, vice chairman of IHS.  "This is  a day of reckoning for oil companies and oil countries, and they  need to stabilize the market," Yergin said.    Getting such a deal approved poses challenges since many  producers would have to agree to cap production. But there is  hope talks could lead to a policy  change at the next meeting of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting  Countries in June. There has also been speculation members  could seek an emergency meeting before then.  "I think the market is beginning to stabilize and  perceptions are changing," Yergin said. He noted that there are  less negative prognosticators talking about oil prices sinking to  $15 to $20 a barrel.  But there is a wild card for the market, and for any producers'  deal: Iran. While Iran has said it supports a freeze, there's  been no indication it is willing to impose one on its own  production. It's in the process of ramping up  production with sanctions against its nuclear  program being lifted. The idea of more Iranian crude  has weighed on the market as traders attempt to gauge just how  much oil Iran can actually export. Iran also faces elections at  the end of the month, and some analysts say it's unlikely it  would agree to hold back on oil sales ahead of that.   At the same time, other forces are at work that will affect  the future of the energy industry. "The market is trying to  determine whether this is a new era of cooperation between Russia  and OPEC," said John Kilduff, partner with Again Capital.  For that reason, industry experts are anxious to hear from the  Saudi oil minister Naimi at the event since Saudi Arabia is  the driver of OPEC's market-based pricing policy. In an  effort to secure its global market share, Saudi Arabia was  willing to accept much lower prices. "Hopefully he'll give  us some clarity on what the Saudis' commitment is — freezing  production or doing more to stabilize the market," Kilduff said, noting that market watchers wonder if this is just  lip service or a game they are trying to play against Iran.  The question of price stability will be an important topic for  the global energy industry officials, regulators and political  leaders expected to attend IHS CERAWeek.  At this time last year, Mexico was playing up plans to bring in outside  investment for its natural resource industry.   "The challenge for Mexico is they launched this reform when the  mentality was $100 a barrel, and that's not the reality so  they've had to have a lot of adjustments. One of the big benefits  they're getting is cheap gas from the United States which is  helping them bring down electricity costs," Yergin said.  According to Eurasia Group analysts, about $5.4 billion will be  cut from Pemex which "will keep Pemex's finances strained and  affect Pemex's ability to maintain investment plans."  The  analysts said Pemex will soon announce its new business plan, and  it will try to prioritize the most productive projects and  attract investment while cutting costs.   The analysts, in an note, said the Mexican government would also  be ready to inject capital into Pemex.  Another big topic at the conference will be how the industry is  scaling back, and the tactics it is using to get by on oil prices  that have fallen further than most predicted. Last year, the industry was just coming to grips with  the idea of lower prices for longer, and now it's been living it.  Yergin said absent a deal among producers to curb production, the  industry should have a very difficult first half, but a better  second half.  "This year is going to be very rough on the industry, very  turbulent. We think that the decline in U.S. production is going  to get more serious – another 600,000 to 800,000 barrels a  day in this kind of price environment. The U.S. would decline  that much by summer, and that starts to set the basis for a  greater stabilization," Yergin said.   The U.S. is the world's third-largest oil producer and its rapid  arrival on the world scene over the past five years contributed  to the roughly 1.5 million to 2 million barrels a day in global oversupply.  Globally, the industry has trimmed upstream oil and gas capital  spending in 2015 by nearly 30 percent from the 2014 level,  according to IHS CERA data. But North America saw an even steeper cut  back, with spending falling 41 percent in 2015.   For 2016, IHS CERA stated that several large North American upstream  companies are cutting spending by 50 percent or more compared to  2015 levels.  Companies are also moving beyond capital spending cuts. Ryan  Lance, CEO of ConocoPhillips will also participate in the IHS CERAWeek conference and his company, earlier this month, became  the first large oil company to cut its dividend.   Wall Street analysts expect other companies to follow with  dividend cuts of their own.    "I think we'll hear a lot of debate about how much capacity in  the industry will be lost. Can you bring it back when you need  it? There is a short-term question of protecting your balance  sheet and being in survival mode. There is a question longer term  about the resilience of the individual companies and the  resilience of the industry. That's going to be on the minds of a  lot of people," Yergin said.  Another "day of reckoning" for the U.S. industry is near as bank reviews of existing debt agreements arrive this spring, and some  lenders will surely cut back unless there's a significant  turnaround in prices.  But there has been a silver lining for the U.S. industry, which  has not seen a dramatic cut back in production yet, and that is  higher efficiency. U.S. production peaked at 9.6 million barrels a day, and was reported to be 9.1 million barrels a day last week."Under the duress of price and just the  learning curve, people continued to get more efficient and by the  end of 2015, a dollar spent was about 60 percent more efficient  than it was in 2014," Yergin said.  Honeywell is one company that has been working to help drillers  become more efficient.Bruce Calder, vice president and CTO Honeywell Process Solutions,  said Honeywell sees lot of opportunity now as producers attempt  to lower costs. Honeywell, for instance, has a remote technology specifically designed for the well head. The unit provides workers with data on what's going on and will alert them to whether something  is wrong in the well and across the oil field."All of this drives down cost. You're using less people. You're  getting more production out," Calder said.  Calder said the cost of staffing and equipment across the  industry has become very competitively priced.  "Technology is probably the biggest play. If you have the right  data, you can make the right decision," he said.  Besides the oil industry, natural gas players will be in  attendance at IHS CERAWeek, and this could be a historic week for the  U.S. gas industry. The Wall Street Journal reports that Cheniere  could be sending off the first shipment of LNG for export sometime this week  and the buyer was reported to be Petrobras.  Cheniere's  Meg Gentle, president of marketing, will be  participating on a panel Wednesday morning.