  Markets are getting China and oil all out of proportion, and  should remember that near-7 percent growth is a good thing while  cheap oil stimulates consumption, according to two top  strategists.Steven Wieting, global chief investment strategist at Citi Private  Bank, told CNBC's "Squawk Box" that maintaining the current level  of hyper-sensitivity to China could end up badly damaging  markets.The rout that wiped $3.2 trillion off the value of stocks around world in the first two weeks of the year was  largely due to worries about China's slowing growth, as well as  its rollercoaster equities market and opaque currency management.  Slumping global commodity prices exacerbated declines."We have had a 4 percentage-point decline in global equities for  each one percent move in China's currency," Wieting said. "If you were to extrapolate that, if we had a 25 percent drop in  [the yuan], then the future would be worthless. Global equities  will be zero." Moves in the currency markets need to be taken in context as  Wietling said other countries have, in the past, depreciated  their currencies by as much as 25 percent against the dollar,  without seeing similar volatile reactions in their stock  markets. "You realize that in the sell-offs, you get exaggerations of this  impact," he said.The People's Bank of China (PBOC) set its yuan mid-point rate at  6.5646 against the dollar on January 7, the lowest fix since 2011  and the largest daily change in the level of the fix since August  13, according to Reuters data. The move fueled  concerns that China was devaluing its currency to support the  faltering economy. China's central bank lets the yuan spot rate rise or fall a  maximum of 2 percent against the dollar, relative to the official  fixing rate. The PBOC's weaker fix sparked a sharp sell-off in  Chinese equities, triggering a circuit breaker that suspended  trade just 29 minutes after markets opened, and for the rest of  the day shortly after.The panic spread to other major stock markets, and as China's  markets continued to gyrate, and oil continued to slide, indexes  around the world see-sawed for more than a week.Attention stayed fixed on China this week, with key gross  domestic product numbers for the fourth quarter and 2015 released  on Tuesday. Full-year GDP came in at 6.9 percent, in line with  the market expectations, but falling just short of the Chinese  government's official 7 percent target.  Equity markets initially responded positively to the data, with  indexes in Australia, Japan, and China closing up between 0.55  and 3.25 percent on January 19. In Europe, the pan-European  closed 1 percent up while in Wall Street, the  was up 0.17 percent.   Kerry Craig, global market strategist at J.P. Morgan Asset  Management, told CNBC's "Street Signs" that this could have been  because markets expect the PBOC to react to the marginally weaker  data with stimulus.  "I think the market reaction yesterday was maybe, in China's case  in particular, [an example of] bad news is good news," he said,  adding there was a disconnect between what was currently  happening in Chinese currency and equity markets and the real  economy.  Many commentators are skeptical of China's GDP, which they have  claimed does not reflect the true, slower rate of growth.  But while Craig noted that the data "is always a little bit  suspiciously close towards just below the target", both he and  Wieting said that even a sub-7 percent growth was better,  compared to sluggish rates elsewhere and globally.   "If [China's growth] was half that, it would still be faster than  global growth," said Wieting.   Vishnu Varathan from Mizuho Bank echoed similar sentiments in a  note Wednesday afternoon.   "China's contribution to global economic growth is not just  sizable, but remains dominant. With about 1.1 [percentage points]  expected from China, in a global economy expected to grow 3.4 -  3.6 [percent], China is set to drive about a third of global  growth."  Varathan added, "The simple fact is that for all the pessimism  (some justified), China is set to remain the world's irrefutable  growth engine; with any other country or region a far  second."  Craig said that he expected new policy responses from Beijing,  including more cuts in interest rates and reserve ratio  requirements and more infrastructure spending, in order to ensure  a soft economic landing.   And although markets overreacted to China, Wieting said that the  economic giant did pose risks to investors, for example, in  currency markets, due to China's declining foreign reserves.  The falling price of oil has also caused some unnecessary markets  ructions, Craig said.   West Texas Intermediate (WTI) futures, which are traded in the  United States, fell below $28 during Asian trading hours on  Wednesday to $27.49, while globally traded Brent futures were  down $28.15 a barrel.   OPEC remains very much at the center of the conundrum in oil  markets; the oil cartel maintained output at its December meeting  in Vienna, and now markets are bracing for as many as 500,000  additional barrels of oil per day to come from a sanctions-lite  Iran.  The International Energy Agency warned on Tuesday that continued  oversupply would put even more strain on the oil  market.   But Craig said noted that, on the upside, Iran had behaved  reasonably by not flooding the market with additional  barrels.  "A lot of those oil tankers [in Iran] are still sitting in the  harbor at the moment," he said.  But it will take time for oil prices to find a bottom, even as  non-OPEC oil supply start to unwind, with rig counts falling in  the U.S. Craig said that in the meantime, low prices would give  consumption a boost. "We should take advantage of that and [enjoy] these low prices  while they are there."  But he acknowledged that the combination of China and low oil  prices had created a feeling of excessively negative sentiment  that was near unbeatable.   "It's just too popular to be pessimistic right now," he  said.   — Neelabh Chaturvedi contributed to this report. — Follow CNBC International on Twitter and Facebook.