  OPEC's plan to limit oil output could boost crude prices next year and help embattled energy companies return to  earnings growth, Institutional Investor's top-ranked integrated oil analyst said  Thursday.   Oil majors like Exxon Mobil, Chevron and Royal  Dutch Shell have reported declining profits in recent quarters as  the two-year price rout cuts into earnings. Meanwhile, the  overall energy sector has weighed on  earnings, resulting  in a six-quarter revenue recession.  Evercore ISI's head of energy research, Doug Terreson, said the understanding reached by  OPEC on Wednesday to cut production by 200,000 to 700,000 barrels a day has  meaningful potential to positively impact crude prices, but  cautioned it should not be confused with a firm agreement.  "The issue is that the devil is in the details," he told CNBC's  "Fast Money: Halftime Report." "They haven't yet determined  production allocations, the direction of production response, the  monitoring and enforcement mechanism, and these are the same  hurdles and the reasons why OPEC has not had a functional supply  arrangement since 2008."    That said, Terreson believes OPEC members are more motivated than  ever to prop up prices because the downturn has produced budget deficits and economic crisis for the cartel's members. If OPEC reaches a deal in  November, the market can more quickly burn through huge crude stockpiles, and oil prices may recover to $55 to $60 in 2017, he  said.  Terreson said a potential deal would come as energy companies  persist in reducing their costs and are displaying better capital discipline.  "If this continues to play out in the way that it has so far,  we're going to have pretty significant earnings growth in my  category next year, and that's the reason that we're still  positive on the big oils," he said.  Fadel Gheit, senior energy strategist at Oppenheimer, said  Thursday that he puts little stock in OPEC doing anything to bring  supply and demand back into balance.  "OPEC has a history of saying things that they don't follow,  promises broken and this is only one of them," he told CNBC's  "Power Lunch."  That view was shared by a number of analysts on Thursday who  identified numerous roadblocks to hammering out a final deal at  OPEC's annual meeting Nov. 30.   What matters for energy stocks is the direction of oil prices,  and it's too soon to tell whether the initial bounce on the OPEC  news will continue in coming weeks, according to Gheit. U.S.  crude settled at a one-month high near $48 a barrel on Thursday.  Ultimately, prices need to stabilize between $60 and $65 a barrel  in order to make it broadly economical for producers to invest in  enough new production to meet future demand, Gheit said.