Toshiba facilitates the boost of the Ukraine's nuclear fleet 
26102017

1404
NuclearUkraine's Energoatom and Japan's Toshiba Energy Systems & Solutions Corporation have inked a memorandum of understanding (MoU) aiming to upgrade the turbine island equipment of Ukrainian nuclear power plants. All of Ukraine's four nuclear power plants - Zaporozhe, Rovno, South Ukraine and Khmelnitsky are managed by Energoatom. These comprise 15 nuclear reactors, counting 13 VVER-1000s and two VVER-440s with an overall capacity of 13,835 MWe.
 
The bilateral Memorandum concerns raising electricity generation, efficiency and safety through the modernization of turbine island infrastructure. It also focuses on expanding cooperation in the long-term assistance of installed equipment and on providing the latest "technical and financial solutions", says Energoatom.
 
The accord was signed by Yury Nedashkovsky, Energoatom's president, and Goro Yanase, the vice president of the Japanese company. The signing ceremony was accompanied by representatives of Japan's embassy in Ukraine and the Ministry of Energy and the Coal Industry of Ukraine.

Yury  Nedashkovsky declared: "We are convinced that our joint work will not only help us to increase the capacity of Ukraine's nuclear power plants, but will provide additional impetus to the development of domestic technologies for [them]." The projects will be implemented by a guided committee, which will also develop adequate commercial agreements on for example equipment supply according to Energoatom representatives.

The MoU affirms that Ukraine and Japan are members of the International Atomic Energy Agency and signatories to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. Both partners believe their partnership in the peaceful utilization of nuclear energy will make an impact to the stable socio-economic growth of Ukraine and Japan.
 
All of Ukraine's four nuclear power plants - Zaporozhe, Rovno, South Ukraine and Khmelnitsky are managed by Energoatom. These comprise 15 nuclear reactors, counting 13 VVER-1000s and two VVER-440s with an overall capacity of 13,835 MWe. The bilateral Memorandum concerns raising electricity generation, efficiency and safety through the modernization of turbine island infrastructure. It also focuses on expanding cooperation in the long-term assistance of installed equipment and on providing the latest "technical and financial solutions", says Energoatom. The accord was signed by Yury Nedashkovsky, Energoatom's president, and Goro Yanase, the vice president of the Japanese company. The signing ceremony was accompanied by representatives of Japan's embassy in Ukraine and the Ministry of Energy and the Coal Industry of Ukraine.
Yury  Nedashkovsky declared: "We are convinced that our joint work will not only help us to increase the capacity of Ukraine's nuclear power plants, but will provide additional impetus to the development of domestic technologies for [them]." The projects will be implemented by a guided committee, which will also develop adequate commercial agreements on for example equipment supply according to Energoatom representatives.
The MoU affirms that Ukraine and Japan are members of the International Atomic Energy Agency and signatories to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. Both partners believe their partnership in the peaceful utilization of nuclear energy will make an impact to the stable socio-economic growth of Ukraine and Japan.
 