  U.S. Treasurys prices turned flat on Friday amid concerns about a  Greek default spurred safety bids for U.S. government debt ahead  of a Federal Reserve policy meeting next week. Bonds rallied earlier as more bargain-hunters emerged and  traders exited their earlier bearish bond bets, brushing off a  0.5 percent rise in U.S. producer prices in May and  stronger-than-expected readings on consumer sentiment in early  June.  There remained no progress in Greece's negotiations with its  lenders on a deal to avert default, a move that traders fear  might hasten the cash-strapped nation's exit from the euro zone  and cause problems for global financial markets.   With Athens owing the International Monetary Fund a 1.6 billion  euro payment at month's end, senior euro zone officials have  formally discussed a Greek default for the first time, several of  them told Reuters. "Greece is the main thing.  Read MoreHow the Fed screwed up  the bond market   That's sending people for cover," said Justin Hoogendoorn, fixed  income strategist at BMO Capital Markets in Chicago. Worries  about Greece caused selling in European and U.S. stocks and  stoked appetite for low-risk Treasurys and German Bunds, analysts  said.   In afternoon U.S. trading, the yield on benchmark 10-year  Treasury notes was flat at 2.38 percent. It had  reached 2.500 percent on Thursday, which was the highest since  Oct. 1, according to Reuters data.   The 30-year bond yield was also flat at 3.10 percent  after reaching a seven-month high of 3.227 percent. The bond  market's rebound from its losses earlier this week will likely be  limited by expectations of more corporate bonds hitting the  market. Companies have sold over $36 billion in investment-grade  bonds this week, according to IFR, a unit of Thomson Reuters.  Another week of volatile trading in Treasurys raised some doubts  about whether the Fed will telegraph intentions to raise interest  rates later this year.   While recent data suggest the U.S. economy has woken from its  winter doldrums, rising U.S. yields have lifted rates on  mortgages and other longer-term consumer loans, which may cause  Fed officials to reconsider ending their near zero-rate policy.  "There is a showdown on what the market thinks and what the Fed  wants to do," said Kevin Giddis, fixed income head at Raymond  James in Memphis, Tennessee. The Federal Open Market Committee,  the U.S. central bank's policy-setting group, will meet on  Tuesday and Wednesday.