Triton analyses onshore plans 
22092017

1425
RenewableAn intermediate electrical compound (IEC) might not need to be built by the developers of the offshore wind 860MW Triton Knoll farm in the UK North Sea.IEC does not need to manage power flows aside the onshore cable route because of technological advances, as announced by Innogy and Statkraft.
 
Based on technical modelling and subsequent cooperation between the contractors and project team, the IEC has changed its design from electrical system altogether and in consequence will not be built.
 
The location of IEC was initially planned near Orby in Lincolnshire on 1.8 hectares of land. The removal of IEC also means less costs for the project.
 
James Cotter, the director of the project announced that people in Orby are happy to hear this great news, as the modification in the design addresses issues appeared during the planning process and in consequence diminishes the visual and construction effects in the local area.
 
At the same time, this implies good news for UK energy consumers as removal of the IEC helps saving costs for the project, which drives down electricity bills.
 
This change in design also reduces the level of construction traffic and limits the project infrastructure close to Orby to joint bays and underground cables, as mentioned by Innogy and Statoil.           
 
During this month, the UK government awarded a Contract for Difference to Triton Knoll valued at PS74.75 per megawatt hour. 
 
Foundations will be fabricated and delivered by Sif and Smulders' joint venture for the project's 90 MHI Vestas V164-9.5 MW turbines and two offshore substations. By mid-2021, first electricity from the project might be supplied.
IEC does not need to manage power flows aside the onshore cable route because of technological advances, as announced by Innogy and Statkraft. Based on technical modelling and subsequent cooperation between the contractors and project team, the IEC has changed its design from electrical system altogether and in consequence will not be built. The location of IEC was initially planned near Orby in Lincolnshire on 1.8 hectares of land. The removal of IEC also means less costs for the project. James Cotter, the director of the project announced that people in Orby are happy to hear this great news, as the modification in the design addresses issues appeared during the planning process and in consequence diminishes the visual and construction effects in the local area. At the same time, this implies good news for UK energy consumers as removal of the IEC helps saving costs for the project, which drives down electricity bills. This change in design also reduces the level of construction traffic and limits the project infrastructure close to Orby to joint bays and underground cables, as mentioned by Innogy and Statoil.            During this month, the UK government awarded a Contract for Difference to Triton Knoll valued at PS74.75 per megawatt hour.  Foundations will be fabricated and delivered by Sif and Smulders' joint venture for the project's 90 MHI Vestas V164-9.5 MW turbines and two offshore substations. By mid-2021, first electricity from the project might be supplied.