  The election of Donald Trump to the presidency gives  OPEC members another reason to agree to oil production  cuts when they meet next week, says Bank of America Merrill  Lynch's head of global commodities and derivatives research. Saudi  Arabia is trying to guide OPEC members toward a deal to cut  production by 4 to 4.5 percent, in a bid to balance global supply  and perhaps boost oil prices by about $10 a barrel.   Merrill's Francisco Blanch told CNBC there are three ways Trump's  win and the Republican clean sweep of Congress will affect OPEC's  forecast:  First, the policies the GOP is pursuing are generating a  stronger dollar and higher interest rates, neither of  which bode well for emerging-market countries — or for oil  demand in the developing world, he said.   A stronger greenback makes dollar-denominated crude more  expensive when it's bought in other currencies, and higher U.S.  interest rates tend to give investors an alternative to putting  their money to work in emerging markets.  "It's very important that OPEC comes back together, given the  potential weakness in emerging market demand," Blanch told  CNBC's "Squawk on the  Street."  That will be particularly true if President-elect Trump follows  through with his campaign threats to impose tariffs on goods  shipped from emerging markets including China, he said.Second, Trump's goal of boosting U.S. energy output by rolling  back regulations threatens to exacerbate the global oversupply of  crude. American drillers have reduced their output because they  face higher costs of production than many OPEC nations.  "So now OPEC has to deal with a rising threat of more supply from  the U.S. at a lower cost, because that's what lower regulatory  hurdles mean for supply in this country," he said.  Lastly, Iran is now  more likely to play ball with regional rival Saudi Arabia. Trump  and Congressional Republicans are both fierce critics of a deal  reached by the United States and five other world powers to lift  sanctions on Iran.   That accord has allowed Iran to increase its oil output and claw  back market share, but Tehran cannot boost production and exports  much more without foreign investment. Republican control of the  White House and Congress makes it more likely Iran will face  renewed sanctions, and that threat will discourage potential  investors, in Blanch's view.  "Effectively their worst case scenario for next year, which is  keeping supply where it is today, probably just became their best  case. I don't see a lot of ... international companies going into  Iran, a lot of financial institutions going into Iran, given all  the uncertainty as to what a new Trump administration with a  Republican clean sweep is going to do to Iran," Blanch said.