Tullow makes first oil discovery on Orinduik license offshore Guyana 
12082019

0903
Oil MarketTullow Oil has made an oil discovery at its Jethro-1 exploration well, drilled on the Orinduik license offshore Guyana.The Jethro-1 was spud in early July, using the Stena Forth drillship. It was drilled to a Total Depth of 4,400m meters in approximately 1,350 meters of water.
 
Tullow said on Monday that evaluation of logging data confirms that Jethro-1 is the first discovery on the Orinduik license and comprises high quality oil bearing sandstone reservoirs of Lower Tertiary age.
 
The well encountered 55m of net oil pay which supports a recoverable oil resource estimate which exceeds Tullow's pre-drill forecast. Tullow will now evaluate the data from the Jethro discovery and determine appropriate appraisal activity.
 
According to Tullow, this discovery significantly de-risks other Tertiary age prospects on the Orinduik license, including the shallower Upper Tertiary Joe prospect which will start drilling later this month following the conclusion of operations at the Jethro-1 well.
Source: offshoreenergytoday.com
The Jethro-1 was spud in early July, using the Stena Forth drillship. It was drilled to a Total Depth of 4,400m meters in approximately 1,350 meters of water. Tullow said on Monday that evaluation of logging data confirms that Jethro-1 is the first discovery on the Orinduik license and comprises high quality oil bearing sandstone reservoirs of Lower Tertiary age. The well encountered 55m of net oil pay which supports a recoverable oil resource estimate which exceeds Tullow's pre-drill forecast. Tullow will now evaluate the data from the Jethro discovery and determine appropriate appraisal activity. According to Tullow, this discovery significantly de-risks other Tertiary age prospects on the Orinduik license, including the shallower Upper Tertiary Joe prospect which will start drilling later this month following the conclusion of operations at the Jethro-1 well.Source: offshoreenergytoday.com