Turkish Petroleum awards US cooperation for Mediterranean offshore drill 
25092018

0858
Oil MarketTurkish Petroleum signs contract with the U.S. based Rowan Companies for drilling two hydrocarbon wells in the Mediterranean Sea for an estimated period of 100-140 days, the U.S. company announced on Monday.The Rowan Companies said that the contract is expected to commence in late 2018.
 
"The Rowan Norway, an N-Class ultra-harsh environment jack-up rig, is currently warm-stacked in the U.K. sector of the North Sea," said the company.
 
According to the Rowan, the company is a global provider of contract drilling services with a fleet of 27 mobile offshore drilling units, composed of 23 self-elevating jack-up rigs and four ultra-deepwater drillships.
 
"The company's fleet operates worldwide, including the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, the U.K. and Norwegian sectors of the North Sea, the Middle East, the Mediterranean Sea, and Trinidad. Additionally, the company is a 50/50 partner in a joint venture with Saudi Aramco, entitled ARO Drilling, that owns a fleet of five self-elevating jack-up rigs that operate in the Arabian Gulf," the company explained.
Source: aa.com.tr
The Rowan Companies said that the contract is expected to commence in late 2018. "The Rowan Norway, an N-Class ultra-harsh environment jack-up rig, is currently warm-stacked in the U.K. sector of the North Sea," said the company. According to the Rowan, the company is a global provider of contract drilling services with a fleet of 27 mobile offshore drilling units, composed of 23 self-elevating jack-up rigs and four ultra-deepwater drillships. "The company's fleet operates worldwide, including the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, the U.K. and Norwegian sectors of the North Sea, the Middle East, the Mediterranean Sea, and Trinidad. Additionally, the company is a 50/50 partner in a joint venture with Saudi Aramco, entitled ARO Drilling, that owns a fleet of five self-elevating jack-up rigs that operate in the Arabian Gulf," the company explained.Source: aa.com.tr