Turkey is the second consumer of autogas globally 
18102017

1618
EnergyIn Turkey, autogas consumption doubled its figure since 2010, approaching 3.14 million tonnes in 2016.   
After South Korea, Turkey owns the second most extensive autogas market worldwide. This tremendous consumption increase is the result of an abolished restriction on autogas vehicles since the end of the 1990's, according to The European LPG Association (AEGPL) latest report, named Autogas Incentive Policies. The report also reveals that consumption of autogas overstepped that of gasoline in the 2009 year. Turkey became the single nation on the globe where autogas sales are higher than those of gasoline.

According to the report, autogas satisfies 14 percent of the country's total needs for vehicles fuels and represents three-quarters of Turkey's total LPG sutilization, of which 77 percent is obtained by imports. Two of the three largest consumers, Turkey and Russia, reported biggest growth in autogas consumption over the ten years until 2016, while the highest decline was registered in Mexico, Australia, Japan and South Korea - the world's hugest autogas consumers. The reason of autogas and green energy fuels usage is the protection of the environment.
 
Autogas is more competitive than gasoline and, especially, diesel, as well as some other alternative sources, as it correlates to greenhouse gas emissions regulations and outperforms gasoline. According to some studies, autogas is better than diesel, if measured on a full fuel-cycle basis. Nevertheless, the strong promotion of pro-autogas policies and actions deployed does not always reflect the ecological benefits of changing to autogas from conventional fuels .

On a global scale, autogas presently accounts for 1.2 percent of total road transport fuel consumption. The use of autogas has been constantly increasing recently, reaching around 26.7 million tonnes in 2016, or a rise of 283,000 tonnes, or 1.1 percent, compared to 2015, and 3.7 million tonnes, or 16 percent boost, compared to 2000. 
 After South Korea, Turkey owns the second most extensive autogas market worldwide. This tremendous consumption increase is the result of an abolished restriction on autogas vehicles since the end of the 1990's, according to The European LPG Association (AEGPL) latest report, named Autogas Incentive Policies. The report also reveals that consumption of autogas overstepped that of gasoline in the 2009 year. Turkey became the single nation on the globe where autogas sales are higher than those of gasoline.
According to the report, autogas satisfies 14 percent of the country's total needs for vehicles fuels and represents three-quarters of Turkey's total LPG sutilization, of which 77 percent is obtained by imports. Two of the three largest consumers, Turkey and Russia, reported biggest growth in autogas consumption over the ten years until 2016, while the highest decline was registered in Mexico, Australia, Japan and South Korea - the world's hugest autogas consumers. The reason of autogas and green energy fuels usage is the protection of the environment. Autogas is more competitive than gasoline and, especially, diesel, as well as some other alternative sources, as it correlates to greenhouse gas emissions regulations and outperforms gasoline. According to some studies, autogas is better than diesel, if measured on a full fuel-cycle basis. Nevertheless, the strong promotion of pro-autogas policies and actions deployed does not always reflect the ecological benefits of changing to autogas from conventional fuels .
On a global scale, autogas presently accounts for 1.2 percent of total road transport fuel consumption. The use of autogas has been constantly increasing recently, reaching around 26.7 million tonnes in 2016, or a rise of 283,000 tonnes, or 1.1 percent, compared to 2015, and 3.7 million tonnes, or 16 percent boost, compared to 2000. 