TurkStream delivers over 500 mcm of gas to Europe via Turkey 
20022020

0920
Natural GasRussia transferred over 500 million cubic meters (mcm) of natural gas to Europe from Turkey via the TurkStream natural gas pipeline during its first month of operations in January 2020, industry sources said Wednesday.An export gas pipeline stretching from Russia to Turkey across the Black Sea through two routes, each with a capacity of 15.75 billion cubic meters (bcm) of gas per year, TurkStream started the commercial transfer of Russian gas to Turkey and Europe on Jan.1.
 
It has so far transmitted 506.3 mcm of gas to Europe from Turkey via Bulgaria.
 
Under international agreements signed with Turkey, the Turkish treasury will receive monthly transit fees for every cubic meter transferred.
 
The pipeline is planned to replace the Trans Balkan Pipeline (TBP), which had been using Ukraine as a transit to supply gas to Turkey, Bulgaria and Southeast Europe. TurkStream aims to expand the Bulgarian network and connect it to Serbia to transfer the Russian gas to the Serbia-Hungary border.
 
It is estimated that the annual 25 bcm flowing through the TBP will drop, and up to 19 bcm per year will be removed from Ukrainian transit throughout 2020.
Source: dailysabah.com
An export gas pipeline stretching from Russia to Turkey across the Black Sea through two routes, each with a capacity of 15.75 billion cubic meters (bcm) of gas per year, TurkStream started the commercial transfer of Russian gas to Turkey and Europe on Jan.1. It has so far transmitted 506.3 mcm of gas to Europe from Turkey via Bulgaria. Under international agreements signed with Turkey, the Turkish treasury will receive monthly transit fees for every cubic meter transferred. The pipeline is planned to replace the Trans Balkan Pipeline (TBP), which had been using Ukraine as a transit to supply gas to Turkey, Bulgaria and Southeast Europe. TurkStream aims to expand the Bulgarian network and connect it to Serbia to transfer the Russian gas to the Serbia-Hungary border. It is estimated that the annual 25 bcm flowing through the TBP will drop, and up to 19 bcm per year will be removed from Ukrainian transit throughout 2020.Source: dailysabah.com