UK beats clean energy records in 2017 
29122017

1541
RenewableThe 2017 year had been Great Britain's greenest, in terms of electricity generated from clean sources.Based on statistics presented by National Grid, renewable technologies and low carbon innovations have helped reach several previous energy records.
 
In the month of June, for the first time, wind, nuclear and solar electricity produced more energy than gas and coal combined. Meanwhile in April, Great Britain had its first 24-hour period without using any coal since the Industrial Revolution. UK power system became fourth cleanest in Europe and seventh greenest globally, after having cut its emissions by 50% since 2012.

Wind parks generated more power than coal plants on more than 75% of days through the year. That made the cost of offshore wind decline below the price of nuclear for the first time. Nevertheless, wind surpassed the production of gas on only two days of the year and overall, green energy sources exceeded fossil fuels for only 23 days at overall.

Duncan Burt, Director of the System Operator at National Grid, declared: "It's been an exciting year managing the many 'network firsts'. "We now have significant volumes of renewable energy on the system which poses an exciting challenge for us in ensuring the supply and demand is matched second by second."
 
Based on statistics presented by National Grid, renewable technologies and low carbon innovations have helped reach several previous energy records. In the month of June, for the first time, wind, nuclear and solar electricity produced more energy than gas and coal combined. Meanwhile in April, Great Britain had its first 24-hour period without using any coal since the Industrial Revolution. UK power system became fourth cleanest in Europe and seventh greenest globally, after having cut its emissions by 50% since 2012.
Wind parks generated more power than coal plants on more than 75% of days through the year. That made the cost of offshore wind decline below the price of nuclear for the first time. Nevertheless, wind surpassed the production of gas on only two days of the year and overall, green energy sources exceeded fossil fuels for only 23 days at overall.
Duncan Burt, Director of the System Operator at National Grid, declared: "It's been an exciting year managing the many 'network firsts'. "We now have significant volumes of renewable energy on the system which poses an exciting challenge for us in ensuring the supply and demand is matched second by second."
 