UK prepares a scheme for domestic nuclear safeguards 
18092017

1701
NuclearAs UK is preparing to exit European Union, it has planned a domestic nuclear safeguards regime, proving its responsibility of a nuclear state. The withdrawal from Euratom will not lead to poorer safeguards standards and oversight in the nation, as announced by the UK secretary of state for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy. As empowered by explanatory notes to a bill published by the government on 26 January authorising Brexit, the prime minister should leave both the European Union and Euratom.
 
The Office for Nuclear Regulation will manage the planned regime, followed by new agreements with the IAEA (International Atomic Energy Agency).
 
Clark mentioned that this new regime should be comprehensive and robust as the one currently provided by Euratom. Thus, a domestic regime will be established instead, which will be almost as comprehensive as Euratom, exceeding the international community standards, as a member of the IAEA. The same principles will be followed as until now.
 
The future regime will include international oversight. The old principles will be followed, meaning all civil nuclear activities will be inspected, as well as current safeguards reporting - received, guaranteeing international verification of the safeguards. Smooth transition from the Euratom regime should be taken into consideration, as discussed with the European Union.
 
The civil nuclear sector is of a huge importance, thus leading to UK's ambition of a tight collaboration with Euratom Community, ensured by maintaining current safeguards and standards. It is important to maintain existing levels of assurance, as stated by the policy and announced in the Queen's speech. The secretary of state declared that a domestic safeguards regime will be established, with the aim of delivering to existing Euratom standards.
 
This is what ONR Chief Nuclear Inspector commented during the Symposium today: "Currently we're looking at options for a smooth transition from the current Euratom regime to a domestic regime. At a practical level, there is a lot to be determined. My organisation is very actively engaged with government and with stakeholders to determine the model and capacity capability to deliver that effectively."
 
In April 2014, ONR became a statutory public corporation.
 
As empowered by explanatory notes to a bill published by the government on 26 January authorising Brexit, the prime minister should leave both the European Union and Euratom. The Office for Nuclear Regulation will manage the planned regime, followed by new agreements with the IAEA (International Atomic Energy Agency). Clark mentioned that this new regime should be comprehensive and robust as the one currently provided by Euratom. Thus, a domestic regime will be established instead, which will be almost as comprehensive as Euratom, exceeding the international community standards, as a member of the IAEA. The same principles will be followed as until now. The future regime will include international oversight. The old principles will be followed, meaning all civil nuclear activities will be inspected, as well as current safeguards reporting - received, guaranteeing international verification of the safeguards. Smooth transition from the Euratom regime should be taken into consideration, as discussed with the European Union. The civil nuclear sector is of a huge importance, thus leading to UK's ambition of a tight collaboration with Euratom Community, ensured by maintaining current safeguards and standards. It is important to maintain existing levels of assurance, as stated by the policy and announced in the Queen's speech. The secretary of state declared that a domestic safeguards regime will be established, with the aim of delivering to existing Euratom standards. This is what ONR Chief Nuclear Inspector commented during the Symposium today: "Currently we're looking at options for a smooth transition from the current Euratom regime to a domestic regime. At a practical level, there is a lot to be determined. My organisation is very actively engaged with government and with stakeholders to determine the model and capacity capability to deliver that effectively." In April 2014, ONR became a statutory public corporation. 