Ukraine to export natural gas to Moldova without Gazprom's involvement 
09102019

0928
Natural GasThe Cabinet of Ministers has instructed NJSC Naftogaz of Ukraine to take measures to ensure natural gas exports to Moldova without the involvement of Russia's Gazprom.This is stated in government order No. 921-r of September 29, 2019 "Some Issues of the 2019/20 Heating Period."
 
According to the document, Naftogaz of Ukraine, Ukrtransgaz, Vinnytsiagaz, Vinnytsia Regional State Administration, the Ministry of Energy and Environmental Protection and the National Commission for State Regulation of Energy and Public Utilities (by agreement) should take all effective measures to ensure gas supply to the city of Mohyliv-Podilskyi in Vinnytsia region so as to resolve the issue of natural gas imports by Moldova from the EU without Gazprom's involvement.
 
Moldova currently purchases Russian gas from Gazprom, which is supplied to its territory by transit through the Ukrainian gas transportation system. The gas transit contract between Ukraine and Russia expires on December 31, 2019. Moldova is concerned that Ukraine and Russia will not agree on a new gas transit contract that should take effect from January 1, 2020.
Source: ukrinform.net
This is stated in government order No. 921-r of September 29, 2019 "Some Issues of the 2019/20 Heating Period." According to the document, Naftogaz of Ukraine, Ukrtransgaz, Vinnytsiagaz, Vinnytsia Regional State Administration, the Ministry of Energy and Environmental Protection and the National Commission for State Regulation of Energy and Public Utilities (by agreement) should take all effective measures to ensure gas supply to the city of Mohyliv-Podilskyi in Vinnytsia region so as to resolve the issue of natural gas imports by Moldova from the EU without Gazprom's involvement. Moldova currently purchases Russian gas from Gazprom, which is supplied to its territory by transit through the Ukrainian gas transportation system. The gas transit contract between Ukraine and Russia expires on December 31, 2019. Moldova is concerned that Ukraine and Russia will not agree on a new gas transit contract that should take effect from January 1, 2020.Source: ukrinform.net