  Oil prices stabilized on Thursday, though futures remained under pressure on signs of another storage build at the hub  for U.S. crude futures.  In early trade, U.S. crude's West Texas Intermediate (WTI)  futures surged to a 2016 peak as the International Energy  Agency raised its 2016 global oil demand growth forecast to 1.2  million barrels per day (bpd) from 1.16 million in April.  Brent crude futures also rallied early as the IEA, the western  world's energy watchdog, noted output from Nigeria, Libya and  Venezuela is down 450,000 bpd from a year ago.  U.S. West Texas  Intermediate (WTI) settled 1 percent higher, or 47 cents, at $46.70 on Thursday, having earlier hit $47.02, the highest level  since early November.    International Brent  crude futures were trading at $47.99, up 0.8 percent. They were off an intraday high of $48.12.  Both crude benchmarks slid after market intelligence firm  Genscape reported a 548,923-barrels build at the Cushing,  Oklahoma delivery point for WTI futures during the week to May  10.  The Genscape data covered the week when some 1 million bpd in  Canadian crude supply were offline from wildfires in Alberta's  oil sands region. The data worried traders since that crude  typically flows to Cushing.  "I don't know how to play this," said one market participant who  provided the Genscape data to Reuters.  "I'm in a bearish frame of mind, yet someone made a pretty good  argument that this week's stats will show the Canadian shutdown  effect," he added.  The U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) said on  Wednesday that U.S. crude inventories fell 3.4 million barrels to  540 million barrels last week, compared with analyst expectations  for an increase of 714,000 barrels and the American Petroleum  Institute's (API) reported build of 3.5 million barrels in  preliminary data issued on Tuesday.   "With (refinery) runs recovering and production dropping, U.S.  (crude) stocks should begin drawing steadily from now,"  consultancy Energy Aspects said on Thursday.   "We estimate that North American inventories can fall by as much  as 12 million barrels across May and June," it added.    Traders said an expected increase in Canadian oil sands output  following disruptions to over 1 million bpd production capacity due to a wildfire was weighing on markets.  Workers for Suncor Energy, one of the largest oil  sands companies affected by the wildfire, will also begin  returning to the shuttered facilities on Thursday, a union  official said, in an indication of returning supply.  "We had a couple of good days of upside here," Robert Yawger,  director in energy at Mizuho Securities USA, said, referring to  this week's rally. "I would tend to believe as you get the  headlines that are announcing flows coming back from Alberta, it  would tend to put some pressure on the market here." Kuwait's acting oil minister said that recent price rises  were fundamentally justified.  "Based on the decrease in production that has been shown in the  last three weeks, I assume fundamentally the price represents the  fall of production," Kuwait's acting oil minister Anas al-Saleh  told Reuters on Thursday.   He also said that the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries  (OPEC), of which Kuwait is a member, would not seek price  supporting market intervention during its next scheduled meeting  on June 2, and instead focus on dialogue among the producer  cartel.   At an April producer meeting, OPEC rivals Saudi Arabia and Iran could not agree  on deal terms, triggering criticism that the producers' cartel  had lost its ability to act. 