  Oil prices jumped on Friday, snapping a 4-weeks losing streak, as the dollar fell  on interest-rate uncertainty, lifting demand for  dollar-denominated commodities from holders of other  currencies.  U.S. crude settled up $1.76, or 4 percent, at $45.72 a barrel,  marking its biggest daily gain since Feb. 12.   Brent's front-month May contract was up 1.6 percent at $55.20 a  barrel, after a session low of $53.55. The contract is set for a  1 percent gain on the week after two weeks of declines.  U.S. crude's expiring front-month, April, rose $2.15 to $46.11 a  barrel. The spread between April and nearby May, which will  become the front-month for U.S. crude from Monday, was at just  over $1 a barrel, indicating further gains for April before  Friday's settlement.  Traders said U.S. crude was showing more momentum ahead of the  expiration of its front-month contract. Read More8 commodity trades on oil's  slide  U.S. drillers cut the number of rigs drilling for oil by 41 this  week to 825, the lowest total rigs since March 2011, oil services  firm Baker Hughes said in a survey on Friday.  The number of oil rigs this week declined for a 15th week in a  row, matching the longest streak for oil rig reductions set in  March 2009.  The dollar was lower on Friday on expectations, spurred by a  Federal Reserve statement on Wednesday, that U.S. interest rates  will rise more slowly than expected.  The euro rose against the dollar after the leaders of Greece and  Germany struck a conciliatory note over efforts to keep Greece in  the euro zone. Read More Gartman: Crude could hit  $15. Here's why  Brent's spread with U.S. crude, one of the  biggest volume trades in oil, was at around $8 a barrel, though  technical analysts said it could blow out to above $30 over time.  Aside from the dollar and the oil rig count, traders were also  watching intensive efforts by world powers to clinch a nuclear  deal with Iran. Tehran plans to raise its oil exports, now  curtailed by sanctions related to its nuclear program, once it  strikes a deal. Read MoreOPEC oil minister: We 'have no choice'  on output  On Friday morning, the White House released the first set of  federal rules for hydraulic fracturing, the well stimulation  technique that has fueled a boom in U.S. natural gas and oil  production.   The Obama administration will require companies that drill on  federal lands to disclose the composition of fluids injected into  wells to free hydrocarbons from underground basins. It also  updated previous rules governing well construction and water  disposal.