  Oil prices edged higher on Monday, supported by a rebound in  other asset classes after news that U.S. presidential candidate  Hillary Clinton will not face charges over her emails,  but gains were capped by a rallying dollar and doubts over OPEC's  planned production cuts.  U.S. crude futures were also supported by a weekly drop of  442,077 barrels of oil at the U.S. delivery hub in Cushing,  Oklahoma for the week ended Nov. 4, according to traders citing  energy monitoring service Genscape. U.S. West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude settled up 82  cents, or 1.9 percent, at $44.89 a barrel for its first positive settle in seven sessions. Brent  crude traded at $46.10 per barrel at 2:37 p.m. ET (1837   GMT), up 52 cents, or 1.1 percent, from the previous close.   The Federal Bureau of Investigation said it would not  press charges against Clinton over her use of a private  email server. That indicated worse prospects for Republican  candidate Donald Trump, whose stance on foreign  policy, trade and immigration have unnerved the market.  "There's a little bit less of a concern about the economy falling  apart," said Phil Flynn, analyst at Price Futures Group in  Chicago.U.S. stocks soared on Monday, a day before the U.S. presidential  election, while the dollar strengthened on news of Clinton's  improved prospects, making greenback-denominated crude more  expensive for holders of other currencies.Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries  Secretary-General Mohammed Barkindo on Monday reiterated the  cartel's commitment to a deal to cut output made in Algiers late  September, which sought to boost prices after two years of  oversupply.  "We as OPEC, we remain committed to the Algiers accord that we  ... put together. All OPEC 14 (members), we remain committed to  the implementation," Mohammed Barkindo told reporters at a  conference in Abu Dhabi.  OPEC has also sought cooperation from non-member producers,  including Russia, but many analysts doubt its ability to  coordinate a cut sufficient to balance the market.  "Market belief that OPEC can reach a credible deal has collapsed  and prices are now $8 a barrel off the post-Algiers highs," David  Hufton, managing director of PVM Oil Associates, said in a note.  He cited record OPEC production in October, infighting between  Iran and Saudi Arabia, as well as calls from Iraq for its own  exemption from any cut.  "The numbers show that the best deal OPEC are likely to come up  with is well short of what is needed to achieve a balanced market  in 2017," Hufton said.  Oil futures posted their biggest weekly percentage decline since  January last week with Brent falling as low as $45.08, its  weakest since Aug. 11, and WTI hitting $43.57, its lowest since  Sept. 20.  There are also risks that the oil glut, which has dogged markets  for over two years, could continue as OPEC's de-facto leader  Saudi Arabia threatened to increase production.  Even if Saudi Arabia does not follow through on that threat, its  exports could rise.  "Saudi local oil demand is falling, and just maintaining current  output could imply higher exports," Barclays bank said.  There were also signs of rising future U.S. output as the number  of drilling rigs looking for new oil rose by nine to 450 in the  week to Nov. 4, the highest level since February. 