  Oil prices fell nearly 2 percent on Wednesday on growing doubts  OPEC will cut production, giving back the gains they clawed back  after the U.S. government reported a surprise drawdown in crude  inventories.  U.S. crude stockpiles fell 553,000 barrels last week, the U.S.  Energy Information Administration (EIA) said, a result contrary  to the 1.7 million-barrel build that analysts polled by Reuters  had forecast.  Crude inventories in the world's largest oil producer have fallen  unexpectedly in seven of the past eight weeks, bucking the trend  usually seen during autumn when stockpiles rise as refineries go  into maintenance. A preliminary report on Tuesday from the  American Petroleum Institute, a trade group, had suggested a  build of 4.8 million barrels for the Oct. 21 week.  Oil prices pared losses after the EIA data, with U.S. crude  briefly trading in positive territory. But the rebound was  limited by doubts about whether OPEC, which meets Nov. 30 in  Vienna, will succeed in reducing a global crude glut. Brent crude futures were down 91 cents, or 1.8 percent, at $49.88 a barrel by 2:35 p.m. ET (1835 GMT), near a  session low of $49.65, the weakest price since Sept. 30. U.S. crude futures settled down 78 cents, or 1.6 percent, to  $49.18 a barrel, having fallen to $48.87, the lowest level since  Oct. 4.  "The focus point from here remains on the OPEC meeting that comes  a month from now, with Iran, Libya and Nigeria all looking  unlikely to commit to output cuts," said Tariq Zahir, crude  trader and fund manager at Tyche Capital Advisors in New  York.  Oil prices were depressed by producers' verbal jockeying over  planned output cuts by the Organization of the Petroleum  Exporting Countries. Iraq does not want to join in with  a proposed production cut that the group has said it  will approve at a regular meeting in Vienna next month.  Traders and investors are growing less confident about OPEC's  chances of securing an effective agreement to curb output as more  members say they want to be excluded from the deal.  With Iran, Nigeria and Libya already expected to be excluded,  along with potentially Venezuela and Indonesia, whose state oil  producer said on Tuesday it was targeting a 42-percent increase  in output next year, traders and investors are growing less  confident in the chances for an effective deal.  "The market is definitely in need of some kind of soothing words  once again, but it's a 'cry wolf' thing. The talking has to get  louder and louder to attract any attention, because skepticism is  on the rise and I think rightly so," Saxo Bank senior manager Ole  Hansen said.  "No doubt, the difference now compared to earlier this year, back  when the market was primarily reacting to verbal intervention, is  now something has been promised and if that promise cannot be  fulfilled or delivered, then we obviously have a problem," he  said, adding that his near-term target for Brent was $49.40,  followed by $48.40.  Iraq, the second-largest producer within OPEC, has argued it needs its oil  revenues to fight Islamic State.  At the Algiers meeting, Iraq said OPEC had underestimated its  output, which it pegged at 4.7 million bpd, compared with the  group's assessment, based on secondary sources, of 4.2 million  bpd.  "Iraq is aiming to expand its oil sector through smaller field  developments to lower reliance on the major oil fields and their  operators for growth," said energy consultancy BMI Research in a  report on Wednesday.  "Proposals to negotiate contract terms will attract new companies  and investment, though we expect bilateral negotiations to delay  contract awards," the report said.  Unless top world producer Russia, which does not belong to OPEC,  joins in, that leaves the onus of a potential cut with Arab  producers in the Middle East such as Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and the  United Arab Emirates.  "OPEC appears to be approaching the limits of its ability to  jawbone oil higher without something concrete to put on the  table," said Jeffrey Halley, senior market analyst at brokerage  OANDA in Singapore.