U.S. crude oil surged on Wednesday, posting its biggest  one-day percentage gain in more than two  years. The advance came a day ahead of the Brent February  contract's expiration and on the day that  options for the U.S. contract expire, brokers  and traders said. Other analysts pointed to the dollar's weakness  against a basket of currencies. West Texas Intermediate  crude for February  settled at $48.48 a  barrel, up 5.6 percent for the session, marking  its best day since June 2012.   Brent reversed earlier losses to trade about 3 percent  higher. February Brent crude was up $2.24, at $48.27 a  barrel. The contract slipped  earlier on U.S. crude stockpiles and weak World Bank growth  forecasts.   Energy Information Administration data showed U.S. crude stocks  rose by 5.4 million barrels in the last week, far more than  analysts' expectations for an increase of 417,000 barrels,  pointing to continued oversupply in the market. Read MoreRussia braces for 'junk' downgrade as  oil dragsThe World Bank lowered its 2015 and 2016 world economic growth  forecasts on Tuesday, reinforcing worries about sluggish expansion in energy demand.  Oil prices that have fallen by about 60 percent since June are  wreaking havoc on economies that depend on commodities exports.  Russian Finance Minister Anton Siluanov called for a 10 percent  spending cut on everything but defense on Wednesday. Read MoreOil: Why nobody knows how low it will  go  At the same time, Europe is on shaky ground despite the European  Central Bank's bond-buying stimulus plan.  "The global economy is running on a single engine ... the  American one," the World Bank's chief economist, Kaushik Basu,  said. "This does not make for a rosy outlook for the world."  Analysts said prices would remain under pressure from oversupply,  prompting cuts to price forecasts for 2015 and 2016.  Oil had tumbled nearly 5 percent on Tuesday before closing down  1.8 percent, with global benchmark Brent briefly trading at par  with U.S. prices for the first time in three months as some  traders moved to take advantage of ample U.S. storage space.  The U.S. shale oil boom and steady OPEC production have created a  global supply glut. U.S.-based PIRA Energy Group said American  stocks could be approaching 80 percent of capacity by the spring,  in a report published before the EIA's data release. Read MoreOil hitting $44 brings out bottom  callers (again)  Outside the United States, some of the world's biggest oil  traders have booked supertankers to store at least 25 million  barrels at sea.  "OPEC is not going to come to the rescue of the market," said  Harry Tchilinguirian, global head of commodity markets strategy  at BNP Paribas. "The onus is on floating storage."  Producer club OPEC has  shown no sign of changing strategy since it decided late last  year to maintain output despite slowing Asian and European  economic growth.