  Oil prices were little changed on Monday, with few headlines to  influence a market waiting to see whether U.S. production from  shale fields will grow enough to offset planned output cuts by  OPEC, Russia and other producers next year. Brent crude futures traded at $54.93 per barrel at 2:35 p.m. ET (1935 GMT), down 28 cents from their last close. U.S. West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude  futures were up 22 cents $52.12 a  barrel on its last day as the front-month contract.  "Implied U.S. output increases...will offset a significant  portion of the planned OPEC production cuts especially since we  don't anticipate sustained strong compliance," Jim Ritterbusch,  president of Chicago-based energy advisory firm Ritterbusch &  Associates, said in a note.  "While adherence to (OPEC) cutbacks could be quite high  initially, we will be surprised by compliance much above 60  percent by the end of the first quarter as (U.S.) shale responds  to a higher price environment," Ritterbusch said.  Traders noted a possible delay in Libyan exports provided some  support to oil prices earlier in the session.  Late last week, a group guarding oil infrastructure in Libya said  it had reopened a long-blockaded pipeline leading from the  oilfields of Sharara and El Feel, but a separate group had  prevented a production restart at El Feel.  The U.S. dollar hit 2002 highs last week. It was up by nearly 0.1 percent on Monday. A strong dollar makes oil more  expensive for holders of other currencies.  But some analysts expect the strength in oil prices to continue  into early 2017 due to the deal  between the Organization  of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and other producers to  cut almost 1.8 million barrels per day (bpd) in oil output from  January.  "With investors now expecting a relatively high level of  compliance with the production-cut agreements, prices should be  well supported," ANZ bank said on Monday.  Speculators raised their holdings of Brent crude oil futures to a  new record high last week, following the first deal in 15 years  to be agreed between OPEC and non-OPEC producers to cut output.  However, other market factors cast a shadow on the outlook,  preventing prices from rising further.  In the United States, which did not participate in the  output-reduction deal, drilling for new oil has increased for  seven straight weeks.  Drillers added 12 oil rigs in the week to Dec. 16, bringing the  total count to 510, the highest since January, though still below  541 rigs a year ago, energy services firm Baker Hughes said on  Friday.  "Since its trough on May 27, 2016, producers have added 194 oil  rigs (+61 percent) in the U.S.," U.S. bank Goldman Sachs said.  As a result, U.S. oil production is edging up, rising from below  8.5 million bpd in July to almost 8.8 million bpd by  mid-December.