  Oil prices were lower in volatile trading as the market  weighed Russia's comments about a possible meeting with Saudi  Arabia that renewed hopes for a production freeze deal against a  bigger-than-expected U.S. crude inventory build.  Global benchmark Brent crude was down 42 cents at  $46.53 a barrel at 2:38 p.m. ET (1938 GMT).  U.S.  crude settled down 24 cents at $45.57 a barrel.  That followed a surge of almost 6 percent on Tuesday on news the  Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries would  renew efforts to limit production.  Russia said it was ready to support OPEC's decision  on an oil output freeze. Russian Energy Minister Alexander  Novak said on Wednesday he sees big chances that the oil  producers' group can agree on the terms of the freeze by Nov.  30.Meanwhile, the U.S. Energy Information Administration said crude  stocks increased for a third straight week and rose by a  bigger-than-expected 5.3 million barrels last week, topping  analysts' 1.5 million-barrel build in a Reuters poll.  "Fundamentals are weighing on oil prices following the release of  the weekly oil inventory report from the U.S," said Abhishek  Kumar, senior analyst at Interfax Energy's Global Gas Analytics  in London.  "Price volatility will increase as we approach the OPEC meeting  scheduled for Nov. 30, but markets will not ignore fundamentals,"  Kumar said.  Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro said he will meet with OPEC  secretary-general Mohammed Barkindo in Caracas on Wednesday to  discuss the freeze.  A number of energy ministers from OPEC countries are also likely  to meet informally in Doha on Friday to try to build consensus  over decisions taken by the full group in September in Algiers,  an Algerian energy source said.  Those informal meetings could include energy ministers from Saudi  Arabia and Russia. But Iran's oil minister will not be attending,  sending the country's OPEC governor instead, sources said.  "We see enough cooperation between these two oil power houses to  keep a significant amount of OPEC premium embedded in the  market," Jim Ritterbusch, president of Chicago-based energy  advisory Ritterbusch & Associates, said in a note.  Two sources familiar with discussions said efforts were under way  to narrow gaps and a final agreement would be reached. One issue  has been the level of production at which Iran would be expected  to freeze its output.  Sources say Iran wants an output cap of 4 million barrels per  day, while other members of the Organization of the Petroleum  Exporting Countries want Iran to freeze supply at about 3.7  million bpd.  "We estimate the possibility of an actual OPEC production cut as  50-50," said Hans van Cleef, senior energy economist at ABN  Amro.  "If OPEC would stick to its intention to set its production  ceiling at 32.5 million barrels a day, or even lower, market  optimism will likely pick up, which could be supportive for oil  prices."  The Dutch bank lowered its oil price forecasts on Wednesday,  expecting Brent and U.S. crude to average $50 a barrel in the  fourth quarter.  In a bullish signal for the oil market, the International Energy  Agency (IEA) said on Wednesday oil consumption will peak no  sooner than 2040 despite the entering into force of the Paris  climate deal which intends to wean the world off fossil fuels by  the end of the century. — CNBC's Tom DiChristopher contributed to this  report.