  Oil prices hit new five-week intraday lows on Thursday after U.S.  crude stocks data compounded concerns over a global glut and as  investors remained skeptical about OPEC's planned production  limit. Brent crude fell 47 cents, or 1 percent, at $46.39 a  barrel by 2:38 p.m. ET (1838 GMT), having earlier dipped to a low  of $45.99 going back to Sept. 28. U.S. crude settled down 68 cents, or 1.5 percent, at  $44.66 per barrel, it's weakest close since Sept. 23. The  contract's lowest level of the session was $44.37.  Meanwhile, gasoline futures were down 1.7 percent after  Colonial Pipeline said "substantial progress was made" in  repairing a major gasoline line following an explosion on Monday  that has shut the crucial supply pipeline to the East Coast.  Traders said energy monitoring service Genscape reported a weekly  build of 1.2 million barrels at the U.S. delivery base in  Cushing, Oklahoma.  That further dragged down oil prices after Wednesday's dive to a  five-week low. U.S. government data released Wednesday showed  stockpiles of oil in the United States surged a record 14.4  million barrels last week.  Futures were earlier underpinned by concerns about supply  disruptions after militants in Nigeria's southern Niger Delta oil  hub attacked a pipeline operated by the Nigerian National  Petroleum Corporation on Wednesday.  Sources said the attack cut the country's output by at least  200,000 barrels. Nigeria has been hamstrung in months by rebel  activity on pipelines and other oil facilities.  A softer dollar also buoyed prices by making dollar-denominated  oil less costly for importing countries.  The  slipped for a third session as  positioning for next week's U.S. presidential election  overshadowed the Federal Reserve's latest review, in which  policymakers signaled they were on track to hike rates next  month.  Futures had risen to one-year highs in October, when market  participants were cautiously optimistic that a preliminary  agreement by OPEC to cap or cut production would lead to a more  balanced market.  The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC)  meets on Nov. 30 in Vienna, where members are expected to hammer  out a deal to limit production. Two years of global oversupply  and low prices have hurt states' budgets.   OPEC has not made clear how much each individual member should  cut, and several have been resistant. Market watchers have grown  more skeptical that a concrete deal can be reached or enforced,  putting a lid on any price rally.  "Since things have clearly bogged down into negotiations about  old-fashioned quotas - precisely what OPEC had wisely shied away  from for more than a decade - ministers now face a very tall  mountain," Credit Suisse analysts said in a note.  OPEC had hoped that major non-OPEC producers, particularly  Russia, would join any deal to cut production. While Russia has  signaled this could be possible, crude output hit a post-Soviet  record of 11.2 million barrels per day in October.  "There is a massive market-share battle going on between Russia  and Middle Eastern oil producers that sees Saudi oil ending up in  Poland and Russian crude in traditional OPEC markets in the Far  East," London broker PVM said, citing reasons why it believes  Russia will not participate in a deal.  "Last but definitely not least ... Russia is in dire economic  difficulty and needs cash."  OPEC approved a document last week outlining its long-term  strategy, a sign its frequently dissenting members are coming to  an agreement on managing production. — CNBC's Tom DiChristopher contributed to this  story.