Crude oil prices tumbled on Monday, with Brent and U.S. crude  hitting their lowest levels since May 2009, reversing early gains  on selling by investors convinced that supply disruptions in  Libya would not offset a global supply glut.  U.S.  crude settled down $1.12, or 2.1 percent, at  $53.61 per barrel, its lowest closing price since May 1,  2009. Brent  crude was last down $1.60 to $58 per barrel, after  hitting a session low of $57.61, the lowest since  May 26, 2009. Read MoreSaudis hit 'panic button' at $40 oil:  Energy CEO  Prices rose early on concerns about the damage in Libya, after an  oil official said the country's two largest ports, Es Sider and  Ras Lanuf, were being kept shut. But prices retreated as  investors concluded that disruptions in Libya will not remove  much supply from the global market.  "Every time the market tries to pick itself up, it's just another  wave of selling," said Gene McGillian, senior analyst at  Tradition Energy in Stamford, Connecticut. He said the market's  concerns about oversupply are not going away.  The early rally may have triggered sell stops, said Phil Flynn of  Price Futures Group. "Once we took out $54 we triggered some  stops and that's basically it," he said.  The market may test technical support at $50 a barrel, said Brian  LaRose, a technical analyst at United-ICAP. Oil tanks at Es Sider in Libya have been on fire for days  after a rocket hit one of them, officials said. Read MoreBottom on oil's plunge unknown:  Expert The OPEC member nation is producing 128,000 barrels a day,  an official said, down from the 1.6 million it produced prior to  Muammar Gaddafi's ouster in 2011. The early rise in prices prompted selling, said Tariq Zahir  of Tyche Capital Partners. "Any time you see any kind of a push  up higher, some sellers emerge to go on the short side again,"  said Zahir. Oil prices this year are on track for the biggest decline  since 2008 and the second-biggest annual fall since futures  started trading in the 1980s.