  Brent crude oil prices rose above $55 a barrel on Monday, trading  at a fresh 16-month high, as optimism spread about the prospect  of a tightening market after OPEC members agreed on a landmark  deal to cut production last week.  Monday's gains take the rally since the OPEC agreement was struck on Wednesday  to 19 percent for Brent and 16 percent for U.S. crude. Last  week's 12.2 percent increase was the largest one-week rise since  February 2011. Brent crude oil futures, the global benchmark used to  trade oil, soared to its highest since July 2015 to $55.33 a  barrel. It last traded up 24 cents at  $54.70 a barrel at 2:39 p.m. ET (1939 GMT). (WTI) crude oil settled up 11 cents at $51.79 a  barrel. It earlier rose as high as $52.42, also a high going back  to July 2015.  Prices had eased slightly earlier in the session, sparking  renewed buying.  "It seems that any dip is seen as a buying opportunity," said  Carsten Fritsch, analyst at Commerzbank in Frankfurt.  The OPEC deal has given speculators impetus to increase bets on  higher oil prices. Weekly data from the InterContinental Exchange  on Monday showed investors had raised net long positions on Brent  to the highest level in four weeks.  "OPEC sentiment continues to support oil markets. Speculative  short positions are still at elevated levels and as more traders  unwind these positions they could trigger more support for oil  prices," said Hans van Cleef, senior energy economist at ABN Amro  in Amsterdam.  After the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting  Countries last week agreed to curb production by 1.2  million barrels per day (bpd) from January, eyes have now turned  to a meeting this weekend between OPEC and non-OPEC producers to  expand the deal.  Non-OPEC producers are expected to agree to add an output cut of  600,000 bpd in Vienna on Dec. 10.  "We remain skeptical that non-OPEC producers will line up to  pledge their own reductions when OPEC's announcement last week  already largely took responsibility for rebalancing the market,"  said Tim Evans, energy futures specialist with Citigroup in New  York. "In our view, the rally in prices represents an economic  call for more production, not more cuts."  Transneft, Russia's pipeline monopoly, suggested on Monday a cut  to oil output could begin in March.  Iran, which was granted an output rise as part of the OPEC deal  as it recovers production curbed by sanctions, will also attend  the meeting, SHANA news agency said.  However, one large uncertainty in the global supply balance is  output from the United States, whose shale oil drillers proved  more resilient than expected to weak oil prices.  U.S. energy firms extended their recovery in oil drilling into a  seventh month last week, data from energy services firm Baker  Hughes showed on Friday.  Overall, accounting for the recent rise in oil drilling, but also  for cutbacks earlier this year on low prices, Goldman Sachs said  "year-on-year production will decline by 620,000 barrels per day  (bpd) in 2016 and increase by 55,000 bpd in 2017".