Oil prices fell on Tuesday ahead of a nuclear pact that could  release more Iranian crude into the oversupplied market, although  prices backed off session lows as the clock ticked towards the  talks' self-imposed deadline set for the end of the day with no  word of a deal. U.S.  crude closed down $1.08, or 2.2 percent, at $47.60  a barrel.  , meanwhile, was 90 cents lower at  $55.30 a barrel.    Six world powers, consisting of the United States, Britain,  France, Germany, Russia and China, ramped up negotiations with  Iran in Switzerland for outline deal on Tehran's nuclear program  that would be integral to removing sanctions on its oil exports.  Iranian oil exports have been limited to around 1 million barrels  per day by the U.S.-led sanctions. Read More Nigeria faces 'pretty  severe slowdown' after election  Tehran could raise output by around 500,000 bpd within six months  if the restrictions are removed, and by an additional 700,000 bpd  within another year, according to estimates by Facts Global  Energy.  Oil prices have fallen around 7 percent since Thursday's close as  fear Iran would achieve a pact with the world powers bringing  more crude to a market already swollen with supplies.  But with hours to go to the midnight deadline in Lausanne,  Switzerland for the talks, the leaders of France and Germany said  they did not want a deal where they could not be certain of  stopping Iran from developing nuclear weapons.  "I think the negotiators are playing with words, and the market  is seeing through that," said Dominick Chirichella, senior  partner at the Energy Management Institute in New York.  "They were originally set to announce a framework agreement by  March 31. Now, we expect them to say talks are going to continue  to June but that they have a framework understanding. This means  they have nothing." Read MoreIran's nuclear deal and how it could  affect oilBrent was on a track to a 12-percent loss on the month and 4  percent for the quarter. U.S. crude showed a 3 percent loss for  March and 10 percent for the first three months.  Oil was also pressured earlier by a Reuters survey showing  producer group OPEC's crude supply in March at the highest since  October.  U.S. commercial crude oil stocks were expected to have risen by  4.2 million barrels last week to a 12th week of record highs, a  Reuters poll, ahead of data from the American Petroleum  Institute.