  Oil prices fell more than 1 percent on Wednesday after OPEC  reported its September oil output at eight-year highs, offsetting  optimism over the group's pledge to bring a global crude glut  under control.  The dollar index's climb to a seven-month peak also weakened  demand for greenback-denominated crude among holders of euro and  other currencies, traders said.  Adding weight to the market was the possibility that the American  Petroleum Institute could report the first build in U.S. crude  stocks in six weeks in preliminary inventory numbers due at 4:30  p.m. EDT (2030 GMT), traders said. Analysts expect the U.S.  government to say on Wednesday that crude stockpiles rose 300,000  barrels last week. Brent crude futures were down 56 cents, or 1.1 percent, at $51.85 a barrel at 2:38 p.m. (1838   GMT). U.S. West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude futures  settled down 61 cents, or 1.2 percent, to $50.18 per barrel.  Despite the drop, Brent is still up nearly 13 percent since the  Saudi-dominated Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries  announced on Sept. 27 that the group and other major crude  producers will agree on a sizable output cut or freeze to reduce  a global glut by Nov. 30 when OPEC meets in Vienna.  Even so, OPEC's latest monthly report, issued on Wednesday,  showed an increase in its oil production in September to the  highest in at least eight years and a rise in the forecast for  2017 non-OPEC supply growth.  The group produced 33.39 million barrels per day (bpd) last  month, up 220,000 bpd from August, and as much as 890,000 bpd  above the new supply target.  "Once again, it reinforces that their deeds are not matching  their words, and that they have a great deal of work cut out for  them to try and come to an agreement that will satisfy anything,"  said John Kilduff, partner at New York energy hedge fund Again  Capital.  Officials of some of the world's biggest oil trading companies  told the Reuters Commodities Summit in London that crude was  unlikely to achieve supply-demand balance until well into 2017.  "I don't think they (OPEC) can do any substantial cut. There are  too many uncertain factors involved," Gunvor Group's Chief  Executive Officer Torbjorn Tornqvist said, adding that rising  Nigerian and Libyan output were enough to "wipe out any other  deal that has been agreed."  Marco Dunand, CEO of Mercuria Energy Group Ltd, said prices could  fall to the low $40s if OPEC failed to agree on a cut at the  November meeting.  Doubts remain as to the intentions of major suppliers such as  Saudi Arabia and Iran and the effectiveness of any agreement in  reining in output from record highs.  The prospect of countries from the OPEC and non-OPEC members  such as Russia coordinating a production curb will support prices  above the $50 mark, market participants have said since an  initial agreement was struck at the end of last month.  Government officials from major oil producers, including Russia,  are meeting in Istanbul this week to try to lay out more details  of production cuts ahead of an official OPEC meeting in November.  Still, analysts cautioned that a deal might fall through  especially as Russia's participation remained uncertain.  "Lots of questions to answer and noises coming from the parties  involved can be contradictory. Volatility is all but guaranteed,"  analysts at PVM said in a note.  Much would depend on the timing of any cut, said Alan Gelder,  vice president for refining, chemicals and oil markets at Wood  Mackenzie, which could deter participation.  "Timing is key for Russia to provide non-OPEC support to  re-balancing the oil market, as September was, momentarily, at  unprecedented production levels. The production reference (month)  could require (Russian state oil producer) Rosneft to curb its  current drilling program, which is contrary to the interests of  its private shareholders," he said.