  Oil fell more than 1 percent on Friday as players took profit on  a rally with little pause over the past week that propelled  prices nearly 15 percent to four-month highs on hopes of OPEC  crude output cuts.  Also weighing on the market was the steady rise in U.S. oil  drilling as prices trade at or near $50 a barrel. A closely-watch  report from oil services firm Baker Hughes on Friday showed U.S.  drillers adding rigs in 14 of the past 15 weeks. Brent crude were down 65 cents, or 1.2 percent,  $51.86 at 2:37 p.m. ET (1437 GMT), after touching $52.84 earlier,  two cents below the 2016 high. U.S. West Texas Intermediate (WTI) futures settled down 63 cents, or 1.3 percent, to $49.81 per barrel. They settled at  $50.44 per barrel on Thursday — the first settlement above  $50 since late June.  Despite the drop, Brent and WTI remain up more than 10 percent  since the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries  wrong-footed many market participants eight days ago with its  first production cut plan in eight years.  OPEC is "back in business" of determining oil prices and only a  "brave person" would bet against the cartel, an avowed oil bull  Andy Hall said in a letter seen by Reuters to investors in his  $2.5 billion hedge fund Astenbeck.  But with prices appearing to have gained too much, too soon  — the Relative Strength Index for Brent and WTI was at 69 on  Thursday, just below the overbought level of 70 — there was  also pressure to liquidate. On Friday, the RSI for Brent was down  at 67 while WTI fell to below 58.  "This is certainly not a one-way trade and we're seeing the other  side acting now," said Tariq Zahir, a self-professed "oil bear"  who specializes in timespread of U.S. crude futures.  "As much as the world wants to believe OPEC will cut some output,  there are doubts what real good it will do to the oversupply.  Also, there is some delayed reaction by oil to the strength of  the dollar this week.  The dollar index hit a two-month high earlier in the day  before paring gains on disappointing U.S. jobs data.  Since OPEC proposed its production cut plan in Algiers on Sept.  28, which it said will be formalized at its policy meeting in  Vienna in November, officials of the group have embarked on an  unusual flurry of meetings to nail down details.  First up, OPEC energy ministers meet Russian officials for  informal talks in Istanbul on Oct. 9-13.  OPEC hopes to bring its output down to 32.5 million to 33 million  barrels per day, cutting about 700,000 bpd from a global glut  estimated by analysts at 1 million to 1.5 million bpd.  But the group's tendency to often max out production makes the  market wary.  "This isn't really sustainable," Hamza Khan, head of commodities  strategy with ING, said of the rally of more than $6-per barrel  that occurred over the seven days. "It all could be over by next  week."  Some warned this could ultimately hurt OPEC member nations by  giving a boost to other producers.  "Many U.S. shale oil producers have now hedged their production,  which is likely to put the brakes on the price rise," anaylsts at  Commerzbank said in a note. "In other words, OPEC is shooting  itself in the foot in the medium to long term."  In a sign of ongoing oversupply, top exporter Saudi Arabia cut  its benchmark crude prices to Asia this week, and analysts at JBC  Energy warned there was "a growing disconnect between the  physical and the financial (oil) market" which would likely  converge.   Meanwhile Libya exported the first oil tanker from the port of  Zuetina since 2015, adding to global supplies.  HSBC on Friday said recent gains in Brent and WTI should be kept  in perspective, cautioning that seasonal aspects of the price  rally would fade again soon.