  Oil traded roughly flat on Tuesday, supported by strong demand in Asia  and supply cuts by Abu Dhabi, Kuwait and Qatar as part of  production curbs organized by OPEC and other exporters.  However, the market faced pressure as investors closed  positions to take profits on strong gains the day before.  Traders said there was significant profit-taking after oil shot  to mid-2015 highs earlier this week, boosted by the deal reached  by the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and  other exporters to cut output by a combined 1.8 million barrels  per day (bpd). International Brent was down 1 cent at $55.68 by 2:49 p.m. ET (1940 GMT). U.S. West Texas Intermediate  (WTI) settled up 15 cents $52.98.  Analysts said oil markets were still broadly supported by the  arrangement to crimp output. In addition, the International  Energy Agency said on Tuesday that it had raised its forecsat for  global oil consumption, which will also help reduce the overhang  of supply.  In its monthly oil market report, the IEA said revisions to its  estimate of Chinese and Russian consumption had prompted it to  raise its forecast for global oil market demand growth this year  by 120,000 barrels per day to growth of 1.4 million bpd.  However, analysts said prices will turn fast if the market  believed compliance was lacking.  "The following three to six months will provide us with an answer  as to whether the foundation is strong enough to hold the  building or will it collapse like a house of cards," PVM analysts  wrote.  In a sign that producers are acting on their plans to cut output,  Abu Dhabi National Oil Company (ADNOC) told customers it would  reduce Murban and Upper Zakum crude supplies by 5 percent and Das  crude exports by 3 percent.Kuwait's Petroleum Corporation (KPC) did similar, notifying its  customers of a cut in their contractual crude oil supplies for  January.  Meanwhile, China's November crude output fell 9 percent on a year  earlier to 3.915 million bpd , data showed on Tuesday, but  recovered from October's 3.78 million bpd, which was the lowest  in more than seven years.  That came as China's refinery throughput hit a daily record in  November of 11.14 million bpd, up 3.4 percent year-on-year.  "Declines in Chinese ... crude oil output and expansion of its  strategic crude reserves underpin our view for China's crude oil  imports to strengthen over the coming quarters," said BMI  Research.  In India, Asia's No.2 oil consumer behind China, fuel demand rose  12.1 percent in November compared with the same month last year,  hitting 16.64 million tonnes (4.07 million bpd).