  Oil prices rebounded in Wednesday's session on expectations that U.S. crude  inventories have dropped and on signs that the world's top oil  exporters will stick to agreed output cuts that took effect this  week.  Industry group the American Petroleum Institute reported  preliminary data that showed inventories fell by 7.4 million  barrels last week, more than analysts expected.  Weekly U.S. industry and government reports were expected to show  a 1.7 million-barrel crude draw for last week, analysts polled by  Reuters said. Both data sets come late this week due to the New Year's holiday. U.S. West Texas Intermediate crude futures settled  up 93 cents, or 1.8 percent, at $53.26 per barrel.  Global benchmark Brent crude futures rose $1.02, or 1.8  percent, at $56.49 a barrel by 5:43 p.m. ET (2243 GMT). The  contract reached an 18-month high in the previous session, but a  strong dollar has shaved off most of those gains.  Oil companies likely drew down inventories in the final week of  the year for tax-related reasons, which could lead prices to  spike after inventory data is released.  Both benchmarks recovered some losses from the previous day  — when the U.S.-dollar hit a 14-year peak and knocked oil  from 18-month highs — as the greenback dipped on Wednesday,  making dollar-denominated fuel purchases in other currencies  cheaper.OPEC member Kuwait also lifted expectations that producers will  comply with a deal to reduce oversupply after its state-owned oil  producer said on Wednesday it would cut output in the first  quarter.  Members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting  Countries in November agreed their first output cut since  2008 in an attempt to stabilize oil prices.  As part of the deal, Kuwait has to reduce output by 131,000  barrels per day.  An OPEC committee meeting to monitor compliance with the  agreement is scheduled for Jan. 21-22 in Vienna.  "Prices are likely to remain volatile until there is evidence  that quotas are being adhered to," analysts at Cenkos Securities  wrote.  Also reflecting a tightening market, traders expect top oil  exporter Saudi Arabia to raise the official selling price for its  crude to Asia in February. 