  Oil were little changed on Friday ahead of the Christmas and New  Year holiday week as the market waited to see how OPEC would  manage its planned output cuts with Libya expecting to boost  production.  Crude is still trading around its highest since mid-2015,  supported by a deal by the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting  Countries and non-members to lower output by almost 1.8  million barrels per day from Jan. 1. Brent crude was up 11 cents at $55.16 a barrel as of  2:10 p.m. ET (1910 GMT), after rising 1.1 percent on  Thursday. U.S. crude settled up 7 cents to  $53.02.  For the week, the U.S. contract rose for a second week  in a row, gaining 2.2 percent during that time, while Brent  looked like it would slip lower for a second week in three.  Futures held their losses after oilfield services firm Baker  Hughes reported its weekly count of oil rigs operating in  U.S. fields rose for an eighth straight week. The rig count rose  by 13 to 523, compared to 538 rigs operating at this time last  year.  "The complex has begun the pre-holiday trade under moderate  downside pressures that are erasing yesterday's gains," Jim  Ritterbusch, president of Chicago-based energy advisory firm  Ritterbusch & Associates, said in a note.  "This week's trade has offered no significant surprises as price  consolidation continues with the market adopting a wait and see  attitude regarding OPEC's execution of planned production  curtailments," Ritterbusch said.  While major OPEC producers including Saudi Arabia  and Iraq have told customers that supply will be cut in line with  the OPEC deal, Libya and Nigeria are exempt because conflict has  already curbed their output.   Libya's National Oil Corp hopes to add 270,000 bpd to national  production over the next three months after announcing on Tuesday  the reopening of pipelines leading from two major fields, Sharara  and El Feel.    Nonetheless, efforts to restore Libyan output since the North  African country's 2011 uprising have been repeatedly stymied and  political splits still present a risk that the plan may not go  smoothly.   The dollar index steadied on Friday not far below a  14-year peak of 103.65 reached earlier this week.   A firmer dollar makes dollar-denominated commodities including  oil more expensive for holders of other currencies.  Also weighing on oil was a surprise increase in U.S. crude stocks  reported on Wednesday in the government's weekly supply report  — and the prospect of sales beginning in January of crude  from the U.S. Strategic Petroleum Reserve (SPR).  "Crude failed to maintain gains this week following the  unexpected build in U.S. crude stockpiles, which revived the  oversupply concerns," said Lukman Otunuga, a research analyst  with FXTM.  "With some anxieties still lingering over the compliance side of  the unexpected cut agreement, oil could end up extremely volatile  with losses expected if production fails to decline."  The volume of extra oil reaching the market from the SPR could be  sizeable. Consultancy Poten & Partners said on Thursday the  reserve could be drawn down by some 190 million barrels between  2017 and 2025 if all planned sales went ahead.— CNBC's Tom DiChristopher contributed to this report.