 This is a breaking news story. Please check  back.   U.S. crude futures extended gains on Wednesday after the Federal  Reserve said the economy continued to expand across most  regions and sectors from early January through mid-February,  with auto sales and consumer spending rising in most  Fed districts.      In its Beige Book report of anecdotal information  on business activity collected from contacts across the  nation, the central bank said oil and gas producers in  certain districts anticipate cuts in capital expenditures  this year, in a sign of low energy prices biting the  industry. U.S. crude futures closed  up $1.01, at $51.53 a barrel, with their discount to Brent  narrowing to less than $10 a barrel, after the  announcement.   Meanwhile, April  slipped 60 cents to $60.42 a barrel after climbing 2.5 percent  on Tuesday.     Brent fell below $60 a barrel earlier in the session after a much  larger-than-expected build in U.S. crude stocks, while Saudi  Arabia's oil minister said he expected the market to balance  itself and prices to recover.    The U.S. Energy Information Administration said U.S. crude stocks  jumped by 10.3 million barrels last week, more than double the  amount predicted by analysts and the eighth weekly rise in  succession. U.S. crude inventories are at a record high.  Stocks at Cushing, Oklahoma, rose by 536,000 barrels, less than  anticipated but still another increase at the U.S. crude  contracts delivery point. Gasoline stocks were largely unchanged  while distillates fell by 1.4 million barrels. Read MoreGuess what country's energy sector is  up 22%  Oil faced additional pressure from a stronger dollar as the U.S. currency rose to  its highest since September 2003 against a basket of currencies,  making commodities priced in dollars more expensive.  Earlier in the session, the market had received some support from  Saudi Arabian Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi, who said he expected  supply and demand would soon reach balance, and oil prices, which  hit a near six-year low of $45 in January, would stabilize,  adding to signs that OPEC's largest exporter sees consumption  growing. Read MoreSaudi Arabia expects oil price to  stabilize  "I hope and expect supply and demand to balance and for prices to  stabilize," Naimi said in a speech in Berlin. "Global economic  growth seems more robust."OPEC decided not to cut output last year and let prices fall as  it moved to defend its share of the market against fast-growing  U.S. shale output. Naimi said it was not Saudi Arabia's  responsibility to "subsidize" higher-cost oil producers.  The speech followed news that Saudi Arabia had raised its  official selling prices for oil deliveries to Asia and the  United States on Tuesday.  "This is a sign that prices have bottomed out because it means  Saudi is confident in raising prices without being afraid of  losing market share," said Tony Nunan, a risk manager at  Mitsubishi Corp in Tokyo. Read MoreOil prices pose biggest political risk:  Aon  Major powers' talks with Iran over its nuclear program were also  in focus, as a deal could release more Iranian oil to the market  after years of sanctions.  "There are still significant gaps and important choices that need  to be made," U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry told reporters  after more than 10 hours of talks in Switzerland with his Iranian  counterpart, Mohammad Jawad Zarif.