  U.S. oil settled lower as traders and investors speculated OPEC  producers might surprise with an output cut above what market  players expect when the producer group meets this week.  A extension to Iran's nuclear talks, which maintains Western  sanctions preventing Tehran from freely exporting its oil, also  limited the market's downside, traders said.  Last week, oil prices notched their first weekly gain in two  months. On Monday, benchmark  oil's front-month contract was last down 54 cents at $80 a  barrel , trading between a session low  of $79.75 and high of $80.85. U.S. crude futures for settled 73 cents lower at $75.78   Ministers from the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting  Countries meet on Nov. 27, and may decide to cut output to  support prices which have fallen about 30 percent since June on  fears of oversupply.  Russia, which needs higher oil prices to support its economy,  tried on Monday to sway OPEC to slash production, suggesting  Moscow could cut its own crude output by about 300,000 barrels  per day. Read MoreChina ready to cut rates again on fears  of deflation: Sources  "Compared to a week ago, there's more speculation now of an  higher-than-expected OPEC production cut," said Phil Flynn,  analyst at Price Futures Group in Chicago.  "If you were oversupplied by 2 million bpd and you were planning  to going to cut just 1 million, it would not have changed the  situation much. But if the Russians came on board with another  300,000 bpd, then, yes, it would help."  With the OPEC meeting falling on U.S. Thanksgiving, some New  York-based crude traders said they were likely to work a full day  despite the holiday. Read MoreOPEC won't cut production to stop oil  slide: Pros   "It's the biggest OPEC meeting we're having since the 2008/2009  crisis, and I'm going to be on the desk all day Thursday," said  Tariq Zahir, managing member of Tyche Capital Advisors in Laurel  Hollow, New York.  Fund managers say oil prices could plunge to $60 a barrel if OPEC  fails to make significant cuts.