  Oil prices steadied on Thursday, as a U.S. government report of  larger-than-expected draws in diesel and gasoline helped prices  rebound from losses after data showed the first crude inventory  build in six weeks.  Crude prices fell when the Energy Information Administration  (EIA) said U.S. crude stocks swelled 4.9 million barrels in the  week ended Oct. 7, much more than the 700,000 barrels forecast by  analysts polled by Reuters.  Prices bounced back as the market turned its attention to product  inventory drawdowns in the same EIA data. The EIA reported a drop  of 3.7 million barrels for distillates, which include diesel and  heating oil, and 1.9 million barrels decline for gasoline.  Analysts had expected distillates to draw by just 1.6 million  barrels and gasoline to decline by 1.5 million. Brent crude  futures were trading up 19 cents at $52 per barrel at  2:35 p.m. ET (1835 GMT). U.S. West Texas  Intermediate (WTI) crude settled up 26 cents to $50.44 per  barrel. U.S. gasoline  futures were up about 1.3 percent at $1.4804.  "There is a lot of seasonality in this data," Scott Shelton,  energy futures broker at ICAP in Durham, North Carolina, said,  adding that crude builds were common this time of year as U.S.  refineries headed into maintenance.  Shelton said the rise of crude imports by 110,000 barrels per day  (bpd) last week was "marginal" and "hard to get too excited about  if you were bearish."  John Kilduff, partner at New York energy hedge fund Again  Capital, said that while more crude builds were likely in the  coming weeks due to depressed refinery runs, "the declines in  distillate fuels, of late, are starting to add up."  "We remain a long way from supplies getting tight, but it is a  trend worth monitoring," Kilduff added.Oil prices have trended higher, with Brent gaining more than 13  percent, since the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting  Countries announced on Sept. 27 its first planned output cut in  eight years to rein in a global supply glut that forced crude to  crash from highs above $100.  But OPEC's production figures jar with its expressed desire to  cut output, with the group's September production reaching  eight-year highs.  Major oil industry executives and investors at a Reuters Summit  in London differed in their views on the price direction for oil  in coming months based on OPEC's likely action.  "In 2014, the big opportunity was in prices going down and now  the big opportunity is in prices going up. That's the way I see  it," said Pierre Andurand, manager of the $1.4 billion Andurand  Capital fund in London, which has forecast $60 prices by the  year-end.  But some investors see the OPEC plan to curb output as a reason  to take a bullish stance on the prospects for crude prices."In 2014 the big opportunity was in prices going down and now the  big opportunity is in prices going up. That's the way I see it,"  hedge fund manager Pierre Andurand told the Reuters Commodities  Summit.  He added that OPEC's decision in Algiers to limit its overall  output to 32.5-33 million bpd "takes off a large wild card from  the oil markets for 2017."  The market received some support from China, which imported  record volumes of crude oil last month, eclipsing the United  States as the world's top buyer of foreign oil for the third time  in a year, in a trend that could soon put the Asian nation at the  top of the world's oil import table permanently.  China's September crude imports rose 18 percent from a year  earlier to 33.06 million tons, or 8.04 million bpd on daily  basis, customs data showed, compared with the U.S. four-week  average of 7.98 million bpd.  Oil imports hit a record despite a worse-than-expected 10 percent  fall in Chinese exports and a 1.9 percent drop in imports that  cast a gloomy outlook on its economy.