Ample global supply and increasing U.S. commercial  inventories weighed on U.S. crude prices on Thursday after  expectations for better demand going forward lifted prices a day  earlier, traders and analysts said. U.S. crude settled 5.5  percent lower, or $2.82, at $48.17 a barrel, following a  more than 3 percent gain in the previous session.    Brent losses were tempered by expectations for improving  global demand and geopolitical concerns about energy supplies  from Libya and Russia.  Benchmark Brent  crude fell $1.60 to $60 a barrel, after hitting a  session peak of $62.63. On Wednesday, Brent surged 5  percent. Read MoreAre oil producers running out of closet  space?Earlier, Brent's premium to U.S. crude increased to $12.06 intraday on  Thursday, the widest since January 2014.   Helping limit Brent losses and boosting its premium to U.S. crude  was the growing number of OPEC  officials making cautiously hopeful comments on the outlook for  demand for petroleum.  Both crude contracts rallied on Wednesday, boosted by Saudi oil  minister Ali al-Naimi saying demand was growing. Earlier in the  week a Gulf OPEC delegate predicted stronger demand growth in the  second half of 2015. Read MoreSaudi's Naimi says oil demand is  growing, markets calm  Brent prices collapsed after hitting $115 in June 2014 on global  oversupply and OPEC's subsequent decision to defend market share  against rival producers rather than cut output.  Brent has rallied more than 35 percent from a near six-year low  of $45.19 in January, supported by signs that lower prices are  starting to reduce investment in production in the United States  and other non-OPEC countries.  Adding to support for Brent this week was President Vladimir  Putin's warning on Wednesday that Russia would halt natural gas  supplies to Ukraine if it did not receive advance payment,  raising the possibility of deliveries to Europe being disrupted  for the fourth time in a decade.  Turmoil in embattled Libya has kept production and exports from  the OPEC-member nation uncertain, adding lift to Brent.  "The Brent market is much more reactive to an almost daily dose  of geopolitical headlines that are demanding at least some  element of risk premium," Jim Ritterbusch, president at  Ritterbusch & Associates, said in a research note. Read MoreWhy it pays to be cautious on  oil  Meanwhile, U.S. crude inventories continue to grow, adding  another 8.4 million barrels to storage last week, according to  government data.  At the same time refinery capacity use fell as refiners do  maintenance, helping the deficit of U.S. April to May crude  increase to more than $2 a barrel.