U.S. crude fell below $60 a barrel  on Thursday, the first time in five years that  it breached the psychologically-important  support level, as oil markets extended this week's  losses on oversupply concerns.New York Mercantile Exchange's front-month West  Texas Intermediate contract for U.S.  crude settled down 99 cents, or 1.6 percent lower, at $59.95 per barrel, its lowest close since July 14, 2009.  WTI crude continued to slide in after-hours trading and was last down nearly 3 percent to $59.20 in electronic trading. The contract has lost almost 9 percent  this week and roughly 45 percent from a June  high above $107 a barrel.Traders warned that a bottom for crude  remained elusive after a six-month selloff. U.S. consumer spending advanced at a  brisk clip in November, Commerce Department data showed, as  lower gasoline prices gave the holiday shopping season a boost. Norway's rate cut and speculation of more  European stimulus helped steady the crude market after  Wednesday's 5 percent price drop, as did talk that some oil  drillers were moving to cut exploration and production. Read More  "For the moment at least, we're focused on the positives of this  oil drop rather than the negatives like deflation and freeze on  investments in energy spending," said Phil Flynn, analyst at the  Price Futures Group in Chicago. "That said, we're not getting much of a bounce, considering how  hard it has been sold off."  On Wednesday, prices collapsed after U.S. crude inventories rose  unexpectedly and OPEC's most influential voice, Saudi Arabia's  oil minister, again shrugged off the idea of cutting output. Read MoreCratering oil price blamed on US  production, Saudi 'treachery'   Some traders said prices could churn as market players speculate  about possible OPEC output cuts if  Algeria and Venezuela convince the group to hold an emergency  meeting early next year. Some doubt the Saudis would agree to cut  output even then.  "There's nothing the rest of OPEC or the world could do to  pressure the Saudis," said Tariq Zahir, managing member at Tyche  Capital Advisors in New York.  While low prices will discourage exploration and drilling in some  places, he said, other producers who could still profit at lower  prices may ramp up output to boost revenues through higher  volume.  "If prices were to hit the low fifties, (some) non-OPEC members  are likely to raise production, because the only way they can get  more revenue is to sell more oil at such prices."