  Oil prices fell more than 2 percent on Thursday, heading for  their sharpest weekly loss since January, as investors brushed  aside talk that OPEC might freeze production and focused on a  growing glut from U.S. crude stockpiles.  Energy monitoring service Genscape's report of a 714,282-barrel  drawdown at the Cushing, Oklahoma, delivery point for U.S. crude  futures during the week ended on Aug. 30 did little to bolster  sentiment, traders said.  Investors focused instead on Wednesday's government data showing  a 2.3 million-barrel build in U.S. crude stocks in the last week,  more than double what the market had expected. Inventories of  distillates, which include diesel and heating oil, rose nearly 10  times as much as forecast, the data from the U.S. Energy  Information Administration showed.  "The high U.S. inventory data suggest oversupply will remain for  longer than expected," said Hans van Cleef, senior energy  economist at ABN AMRO Bank N.V. in Amsterdam.  "On top of that, anticipation of a higher dollar if the Fed  starts to hike rates is negative for oil prices. And there's also  uncertainty about the likelihood of OPEC/non-OPEC action at the  end of the month." Brent  crude futures for November fell $1.35, or 2.88 percent,  to $45.52 a barrel. U.S.  crude futures were down $1.54, or 3.45 percent, to $43.16 a barrel, marking a three-week low. It's the worst settle since August 11, with a close of $43.49.  Both Brent and WTI were down more than 8 percent week-to-date for  their biggest decline since mid-January.  Oil prices rose as much 11 percent in August, posting their best  monthly return since April, on speculation that the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting  Countries and other producers might agree on  curbing output at Sept. 26-28 talks in Algeria. Russia is also expected to attend the IEF.  But many investors doubt OPEC will be able to agree a common  position on production and prices have fallen in recent days.  Many past efforts to restrict production have failed and OPEC is  responsible for only around 40 percent of world output.  "There is still lots of correction potential, given the overhang  of speculative long positions and exaggerated hopes for an output  freeze," said Commerzbank oil analyst Carsten Fritsch.  Saudi Foreign Minister Adel al-Jubeir said on Thursday that OPEC  and non-OPEC oil producers were increasingly moving towards a  common position.  "I think there is a move toward a common position, toward a  common effort," he told an event in Tokyo.  "If you want to have an impact then all of us have to shoulder  the responsibility, and I believe over the past five or six  months, I believe that there has been an increasing realization  that this is a collective effort," Al-Jubeir said.  But many analysts are skeptical.  "Talk is cheap," Harry Tchilinguirian, global head of commodity  markets strategy at BNP Paribas, told Reuters Global Oil Forum.  "Reality will set in and the market will realize that the agendas  of various OPEC producers are not aligned."