  Oil futures fell on Tuesday, retreating from one-year  highs, on mixed responses by Russian oil industry officials  toward an OPEC call for all major crude producers to cut output.  Oil prices jumped as much as 3 percent on Monday, after Russia  and Saudi Arabia both said a deal between the Organization of the  Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and non-OPEC members  like Russia in curbing crude output was possible.  December Brent crude oil futures were down 78 cents, or 1.5 percent, at $52.36 a barrel by 2:38 p.m. ET (1838 GMT), more than a dollar off Monday's one-year intraday high of $53.73. U.S. crude futures settled down 56 cents, or 1.1 percent, at $50.79 a barrel, after closing on Monday at $51.35, the highest level since July 15, 2015.  Global oil supply could fall into line more quickly with  demand if OPEC and Russia agree to a steep enough cut in  production, but it is unclear how rapidly this might happen, the  International Energy Agency said on Tuesday.  Global oil industry officials in Istanbul for the World Energy  Conference issued a raft of statements on OPEC's first planned  production cut in eight years.  The energy ministers of Saudi Arabia and Russia intend to hold  further consultations in Riyadh after the Istanbul meeting, the  Saudi energy ministry said in a statement.  Igor Sechin, Russia's most influential oil executive and the head  of Rosneft, told Reuters in an interview his company will not cut  or freeze oil production as part of a possible agreement with  OPEC.  The previous day, Russian President Vladimir Putin said an output  freeze or even a production cut were likely the only right  decisions to maintain energy sector stability. Russian Energy  Minister Alexander Novak said the base-case scenario for Russia  would be to leave current output unchanged.  OPEC Secretary General Mohammed Barkindo said any deal to freeze  oil production was likely to be reviewed after six months. OPEC  is not interested in or targeting a specific oil price, Barkindo also said on Tuesday.OPEC, which groups Saudi Arabia with big oil producers such as  Iran, Iraq, Libya, Kuwait and Nigeria and Venezuela, aims to cut  700,000 barrels per day of its production, bringing output to  32.5-33 million bpd by its next policy meeting in Vienna on  Nov. 30.  OPEC has asked non-OPEC producers besides Russia to contribute  with cuts too, although the United States, the world's No. 1 oil  producer, will not be part of the plan.  Analysts worry that if crude prices maintain their recent upward  momentum, production of U.S. shale oil, crimped this year by  prices as low as nearly $26 a barrel, will begin to increase  again.  Goldman Sachs said in a note to clients on Tuesday that  despite a production cut becoming a "greater possibility,"  markets were unlikely to rebalance in 2017.  "Higher production from Libya, Nigeria and Iraq are  reducing the odds of such a deal rebalancing the oil market in  2017," the U.S. bank said, and added that even if OPEC producers  and Russia implemented strict cuts, higher prices would allow  U.S. shale drillers to raise output.  Adding to the drag on oil, the dollar rallied to its  highest in 11 weeks, lifted by rising expectations that the  Federal Reserve could raise U.S. interest rates by the  end of the year. — CNBC's Tom DiChristopher contributed to this  report.