 U.S. crude for  February delivery settled 85 cents lower, at  $53.27 per barrel, the lowest since May 2009.   The contract posted a 46 percent annual loss,  making 2014 its worst year since 2008.  was last down 40 cents at $57, after  dropping as low as $55.81, the weakest price since May,  2009. U.S. commercial crude inventories declined more than  expected last week, falling by 1.8 million barrels, according to  data from the U.S. government's Energy Information  Administration.  A Reuters poll forecast U.S. crude inventories would show a drop  of 900,000 barrels in the week ending Dec. 26, after a rise to  their highest recorded level for December in the previous week. Brent crude was heading for its biggest annual decline  since 2008, pressured by weakening demand and a  supply glut prompted by the U.S. shale boom and  OPEC's refusal to cut output.  Global benchmark Brent crude has fallen 49 percent in  2014 as demand growth slowed, the United States expanded  output and OPEC, dropping its  strategy of trimming supply to keep oil around $100 a  barrel, chose instead to defend market share.  On Wednesday, prices came under pressure from a  survey showing China's factory sector shrank for the  first time in seven months in  December—a bearish indication on  the strength of oil demand in the world's  second-largest consumer.  "Clearly, demand concerns are one of the issues for the oil  market," said Michael McCarthy, chief market strategist at CMC  Markets.   Read More Show a little guts: Time to  tiptoe back into energy stocks  In the previous session, both Brent and U.S. crude hit their  lowest levels since May 2009.   The annual decline for Brent is set to be the biggest since 2008,  when demand crumbled in response to the financial crisis. Prices  were eventually propped up by OPEC's last formal decision to  cut production.  In contrast, OPEC at a Nov. 27 meeting this year decided against  a cutback to defend its market share against shale oil and other  competing supply sources, despite its own forecasts of a growing  surplus in 2015.  Turmoil in Libya has effectively led to a drop in OPEC supply in  December to a six-month low, a Reuters survey showed on Tuesday,  although forecasts still point to a large excess supply next  year. Read MoreDon't cheer Iraq oil agreement just  yet  The Obama administration on Tuesday bowed to months of growing  pressure over a 40-year-old ban on exports of most domestic  crude, taking two steps expected to increase the flow of  ultra-light oil, or condensate, onto the global market.  "We expect a gradual, but slow increase of stabilized condensate  exports over the next year," analysts at JBC Energy said in a  report.