  U.S. crude prices ended the month nearly 8 percent higher,  supported in the final week of September by planned OPEC output  cuts, but profit-taking after a two-day rally capped gains for  benchmark crude on Friday. U.S. West Texas Intermediate crude futures settled  up up 41 cents at $48.24 a barrel. Global benchmark Brent  crude futures were down 19 cents at $49.05 a barrel by  2:36 p.m. ET (1829 GMT).  On a weekly basis, WTI had climbed about 8.5 percent, while  Brent was up nearly 7 percent from last Friday's close. For the  third quarter, U.S. crude was roughly flat.  Also on Friday, the U.S. oil rig count rose by 7 to a total of  425, marking the 13th time in the last 14 weeks the tally has  ticked up, oilfield services firm Baker Hughes reported.  At this time last year, U.S. drillers were operating 614 oil  rigs.  U.S. drillers in the third quarter added 95 oil rigs, the greatest increase in any  quarter since 2014, but the pace of additions has slowed as crude holds below  $50 a barrel despite OPEC's first plan in eight years to cut  output.  While profit-taking weighed on Brent and WTI for the day, the  market's downside was also limited by a rise in Wall Street  shares and drop in the dollar after weak U.S. consumer spending  data suggested the Federal Reserve might be cautious in raising  interest rates in the near term.  "We're seeing some profit-taking because it is a long time until  the next OPEC meeting in November when individual quotas have to  follow," said Frank Klumpp, oil analyst at Stuttgart-based  Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg.  The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting  Countries (OPEC) agreed on Wednesday to cut output to  32.5-33.0 million barrels per day (bpd) from around 33.5 million  bpd, estimated by Reuters to be the output level in August.  The details, including the quotas for each member and the  implementation data, will be finalized at OPEC's policy meeting  in November.  "The group surprised us in Algiers and we cannot rule out that  they will surprise us again," said analysts at BMI Research.  "However, we maintain our view that a collective cut will have  little impact on a fundamental level."  A persistent oil supply glut brought prices from mid-2014 highs  above $100 a barrel to below $50 today, prompting the oil  producers' group to find agreement on limiting output.  Russia, not an OPEC member but a large producer currently pumping  crude at record high levels, said it would find a way to freeze  production if the country reaches an agreement with OPEC  members.  The United States said it had little faith in the deal leading to  higher prices in the long term.  Amos Hochstein, the U.S. energy envoy, said in a Reuters  interview the deal will either lead to higher U.S. production and  trigger another price fall or allow U.S. producers to expand  market share.  Investors are bracing for further oil price swings ahead of the  November meeting.  "We are likely to see some volatility going into November's  meeting," said Jade Fu, investment manager at Heartwood  Investment Management.  "We continue to maintain reasonable exposure to energy through  commodity-related sectors, such as U.S. high yield and private  equity." — CNBC's Tom DiChristopher contributed to this  report.