U.S crude oil fell on Thursday as the debate for a sustainable  price level continued after Saudi Arabia announced deep discounts  for the crude it sells to Asian and U.S. buyers in an apparent  attempt to defend its market share. U.S. crude settled 57 cents lower at  $66.81 a barrel. Meanwhile, benchmark North  Sea Brent crude was last down about 30 cents  at $69.75 a barrel, after trading in a wide band of nearly  $2.   News that Libya's El Sharara oil field, one of OPEC's largest,  might be ready to resume output after a pipeline blockage was  cleared also weighed on sentiment in an oversupplied market. The  El Sharara produced 300,000 barrels per day before it closed last  month after clashes between armed groups.  Losses in oil and other dollar-denominated commodities were  capped, however, by a weaker U.S.  dollar against the euro amid  uncertainties on whether the European  Central Bank would introduce fresh stimulus into the euro  zone economy. Read More Energy stocks: Getting  ready to buy a big dip  Saudi Arabia's state-owned oil company cut the January price of  its Arab Light grade for Asian customers by $1.90 a barrel from  December to a discount of $2 a barrel to the Oman/Dubai average.  The Arab Light Official Selling Price to the United States was  set at a premium of 90 cents a barrel to the Argus Sour Crude  Index for January, down 70 cents from the previous month.Saudi Arabia was key in blocking the  Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries last week in  reducing output to support prices. It argued that low prices  would instead force U.S. shale oil producers, who have flooded  the market, to cut back. Read MoreOPEC won't stop US oil production  growth  "This is the second salvo in the OPEC price war, a new offensive  by the Saudis," said Phil Flynn, analyst at the Price Futures  Group in Chicago.  More than 30 economists and analysts polled by Reuters after  OPEC's Nov. 27 meeting forecast an average Brent price of $82.50  a barrel in 2015, down $11.20 from the previous poll. This was  the biggest downgrade in average forecasts since the global  economic crisis in 2008.  Fellow OPEC member Nigeria has lowered its oil price budget  assumption by 11 percent to $65 a barrel for 2015, down from $73.