U.S. crude settled above $50 for the first time since June on Thursday, underpinned by news of  another informal OPEC meeting on output cuts and a surprise drop  in stockpiles.   Trading, however, was choppy after a price gain of 15 percent in  seven sessions.  Oil has gained more than $6 a barrel since the Organization of  the Petroleum Exporting Countries announced at informal talks in  Algeria on Sept. 28 that it hopes to reduce output to 32.5  million to 33 million barrels per day. That would remove about  700,000 bpd from a global glut estimated by analysts at 1 million to 1.5 million bpd. Brent crude futures rose 68 cents, or 1.3 percent,  to $52.54 per barrel at 2:39 p.m. ET (1839 GMT), slightly off the  day's peak of $52.65 and not far from the 2016 high of $52.86 set  on June 9. U.S. crude futures settled up 61 cents, or 1.2 percent,  at $50.44 a barrel, the best closing level since June 9. It rose to a session peak of $50.58 on  Thursday.  Earlier in the session, the market pared gains after traders  cited energy monitoring service Genscape's report of a build of  nearly 1 million barrels in stockpiles at the Cushing, Oklahoma  delivery base for U.S. crude futures during the week to Oct 4.  Technically, both benchmarks have risen too much too soon, with  Brent's Relative Strength Index at 69 and WTI's at 65 — just  below the overbought level of 70.  "It's really crazy these markets," said Carsten Fritsch,  commodities strategist for Commerzbank in Frankfurt. "Prices  rise, regardless of the news flow and any dip is being seen as  buying opportunity."  Oil crashed from above $100 a barrel in mid-2014 to around $26 in  February this year from oversupply of up to 2 million bpd and  OPEC's refusal then to cut output. But with the group changing its stance, and U.S. crude stocks  down by a surprise 26 million barrels the past five weeks, prices  have been on a roll.A number of OPEC oil ministers plus Russia's energy minister set  to attend an energy conference in Istanbul are expected to meet  together informally although they are unlikely to make any new  decisions, OPEC sources said.  "In a bullish market environment this is enough to push prices  higher again," Commerzbank strategist Carsten Fritsch said. "It's 'the trend is your friend' and (talk) that Russia will  attend next week's producer meeting in Istanbul."  Still, inventories are near record highs and even the prospect of  a modest cut in production from the world's largest exporters  might not be enough to fuel a more sustained rally, analysts  said.  "Optimism on the OPEC deal and surprising storage declines pushed  oil prices to the upper end of the recent trading range. Both  trends are temporary and unlikely to mark the easing of the oil  supply glut. We see more downside than upside from today's price  levels," said Norbert Ruecker, head of commodity research at  Swiss bank Julius Baer.  Traders said a decline in prices early in Thursday's session  reflected weaker physical crude after top exporter Saudi Arabia  cut the price of its crudes to Asia for November in a sign that  the global fuel glut is persisting.  Hefty refinery maintenance in Europe, and the ensuing drop in  demand for crude, has also put the physical North Sea market  under pressure, forcing sellers to offer barrels of grades such  as Forties at their weakest since July.  Overall, however, analysts said the market was well supported at  current levels, especially because of the proposed output cut  announced last week by the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting  Countries (OPEC).  "We expect that Saudi will shoulder the bulk of the production  cuts with a reduction of 5 percent or 0.5 million barrels per day  (bpd), with other Gulf States cutting by 0.3 million bpd. With  Iran, Libya and Nigeria getting a 'pass', remaining cuts will be  on the shoulders of some of the less reliable members in OPEC,"  Bernstein Energy said in a note.  Algeria's Energy Minister Nouredine Bouterfa told local media on  Thursday OPEC could cut production at its late November meeting  in Vienna by another one percent more than 700,000 bpd agreed in  Algiers last month, if needed.  Barring any unforeseen output disruptions, analysts did not  expect prices to shoot up much further as production remains high  even with an OPEC cut.  "Resilient production in the U.S. and Russia will postpone crude  market rebalancing and keep the market in surplus into 2017," BMI  Research said.  "With an insufficient demand response to counteract strong  supply, the result is a downward revision of our 2017 Brent  forecast to $55 per barrel from $57 per barrel," BMI said. — CNBC's Tom DiChrstopher contributed to this  report.