  Oil prices fell as much as 4 percent on Friday, dragged down by  uncertainty over whether the Organization of the Petroleum  Exporting Countries will reach an output deal.   Futures extended early losses after Saudi Arabia said it will not  attend talks on Monday with non-OPEC producers to discuss supply  cuts. Brent crude oil futures were trading at $47.02, down  $1.98, or 4 percent, by 1:35 p.m. ET (1835 GMT). U.S. West  Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude futures settled down $1.90,  or 4 percent, at $46.06 per barrel.Overall activity was thin after  the U.S. Thanksgiving holiday and ahead of the weekend.  Top OPEC oil exporter Saudi Arabia has told the producer group it  will not attend talks on Monday with non-OPEC producers to  discuss limiting supply, OPEC sources said, as it wants to focus  on having consensus within the organization first.  "I think Saudi's announcement it would not to go to the meeting  drove the initial sell-off," said Tariq Zahir, managing member at  Tyche Capital in New York. "There has to be a substantial cut and  it has to be something that the street will believe."  OPEC is due to meet on Nov. 30 to coordinate a cut, potentially  with non-OPEC members like Russia, the world's largest producer,  but there is disagreement within the producer cartel as to which  member states should cut and by how much.    Despite extensive diplomacy since September, the OPEC side of the  deal still faces setbacks from Iraq's call for it to be exempt  and from Iran, which wants to increase supply because its output  has been hit by sanctions.Reports that Saudi Aramco would in January increase oil supplies  to some Asian customers also weighed on markets, traders  said.  Saudi's late push for more exports to Asia comes as Russia has  stolen its place as top supplier to China, the world's biggest  crude importer and growth market despite a monthly drop in  imports in October. This is a strong indicator that Riyadh's  policy to let prices slide in order to defend market share has  not had the desired effect.  A decline in China's October crude oil imports to their lowest on  a daily basis since January added to the bearish tone.  Analysts said fundamentals were little changed — apart from  concerns over the fate next week of the Saudi-led plan for the  OPEC and other producers to agree on cuts in crude output.  That deal would only impact supplies from February 2017 because  most exporters sell their supplies two months ahead.  The market "is taking it easy ahead of a long weekend (in the  United States) and uncertainty over OPEC," said Bjarne  Schieldrop, chief commodities analyst with SEB Bank in  Oslo.Schieldrop said prices could rebound if the Nov. 30 meeting  succeeded in reaching a targeted production cap of 32.5 million  to 33 million barrels per day (bpd), from the 33.64 million bpd  the group pumped in October.  On Thursday, the oil minister of non-OPEC nation Azerbaijan said  OPEC was also pushing oil producers outside the group to make big  cuts in output.  Most analysts expect some form of cut, but it is uncertain  whether that would be enough to prop up a market dogged by  oversupply since 2014.  "Oil market reaction will hinge on the credibility of the  proposed action," U.S. investment bank Jefferies said, adding  that recent output increases to record levels in many countries  now required a deep cut to lift prices significantly.  "The surge in OPEC output since August has shifted the market  back into oversupply and re-balancing will be deferred until the  second half of 2017 without a cut of at least 700,000 barrels per  day."