  Oil prices slipped on Friday, extending losses after data  suggested drilling is ramping up in the United States, easing the  focus on efforts by OPEC and other producers to support prices by  cutting supplies. U.S. West Texas  Intermediate (WTI) crude futures settled down 61 cents,  or 1.1 percent, to $53.17 a barrel, but ended the week 1.4  percent higher. Brent crude futures, the international benchmark for oil  prices, were down 75 cents, or 1.3 percent, at $55.49 per barrel  at 2:35 p.m. ET (1935 GMT). They were on pace for a weekly loss.  The U.S. weekly oil and gas rig count from Baker Hughes showed  that U.S. drillers added 15 oil rigs in the week, the 12th gain  in 13 weeks. That brought the total count to 566, the most since  November 2015.  "We're in a holding pattern at this point in time," said Mark  Watkins, regional investment manager at U.S. Bank Private Client  Group. "Supply is a big factor right now and you have the U.S.  really filling that gap that OPEC has left open."  Prices had risen during Asian business hours, though activity was  low due to the start of the Lunar New Year holiday in most  countries of the region, including China and Singapore.  The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC)  and other producers, including Russia, agreed to cut production  by almost 1.8 million barrels per day (bpd) for the first half of  2017 to fight a two-year supply overhang.  But U.S. oil production has been rising, with the International  Energy Agency forecasting total U.S. production growth of 320,000  bpd in 2017 to an average of 12.8 million bpd.John Kilduff, founding partner at energy hedge fund Again  Capital, attributed a sharp drop in oil prices around 9 a.m. ET  to weak economic data released shortly before the decline, which  could spell further trouble for fuel demand.  "The durable goods and GDP hurt oil in particular. We're seeing  gasoline demand down a lot," he said.  There were fundamental factors that impacted prices this week,  such as gains in Iran's monthly oil exports in February and  resilient production in Libya. A glitch in North Sea Buzzard  crude production provided support.  But market participants warned of more volatility ahead as  speculators were reacting to even small developments in the  physical markets.  "Given that speculative net long positions in Brent and WTI are  already at a record-high level, the correction potential is  therefore growing all the time," Commerzbank analyst Carsten  Fritsch said in a note.   — CNBC's Tom DiChristopher contributed to this  report.