  Oil prices rose on Wednesday by the most in over a month, boosted  by a weaker U.S. dollar following a news conference by U.S.  President-elect Donald Trump and on news that Saudi Arabia had  cut exports to Asia.  Oil's gains came despite government data showing a  bigger-than-expected weekly build in U.S. crude and fuel  inventories.  The U.S. dollar collapsed during Trump's remarks, which  disappointed investors who had sent the currency to its highest  level in a week ahead of this news conference.  A stronger greenback makes dollar-denominated crude more  expensive for users of other currencies.  "The main reason for the oil price rise was that the dollar was  down," said Phil Davis, managing partner at PSW Investments in  Woodland Park, New Jersey. U.S. West Texas  Intermediate (WTI) crude oil futures settled up $1.43, or  2.8 percent, at $52.25 a barrel. Brent crude futures were up $1.39, or 2.6 percent,  at $55.03 a barrel by 2:36 p.m. ET (1936 GMT), while   That put both contracts on track for their biggest daily  percentage gains in over a month. On Tuesday, Brent and U.S.  crude futures settled at their lowest levels in a month. U.S. gasoline prices were also up 3 percent at  $1.5937, on pace for only their second positive day this  year.   "We expect some bullish OPEC rhetoric to ramp up in an attempt to  neutralize the bearish vibes that have emanated from the recent  production increases indicated out of Libya, Iran, Iraq and  Nigeria," Jim Ritterbusch, president of Chicago-based energy  advisory firm Ritterbusch & Associates, said in a note.  Saudi Arabia, the world's top oil exporter, has told some of its  Asian customers that it will reduce their crude supplies slightly  in February.  OPEC's No. 2 producer Iraq plans to raise crude exports from its  southern port of Basra to an all-time high of 3.641 million bpd  in February.  There is plenty of oil to fill gaps left by OPEC. North American  drilling is on the rise, while European and Chinese traders are  shipping a record 22 million barrels of crude from the North Sea  and Azerbaijan to Asia this month.  U.S. crude production was projected to rise by 110,000 barrels  per day in 2017 to 9 million bpd, according to U.S. Energy  Information (EIA) data released Tuesday.  On Wednesday, EIA data showed crude production rose notably,  particularly in the lower 48 states. Overall production was 8.95  million bpd last week, the most since April of last year.   U.S. crude inventories increased by 4.1 million barrels last  week, EIA said. That topped both the 1.2 million barrel build  that analysts forecast in a Reuters poll and the 1.5 million  barrel build in data Tuesday from the American Petroleum  Institute, an industry group.  "It is one the most uniformly bearish reports in some time," said  John Kilduff, partner at energy hedge fund Again Capital in New  York.  The stocks rose as crude imports and refining hit record highs,  EIA data showed. Refinery crude runs rose 418,000 barrels per day  to 17.1 million bpd, the highest level since EIA records begin in  1982.  U.S. crude imports rose last week by 1.8 million bpd to 8.3  million bpd as imports into the Gulf Coast alone hit 4.1 million  bpd last week, the highest rate since November 2013.  Gasoline stocks rose by 5.0 million barrels, compared with  analysts' expectations in a Reuters poll for a 1.6 million-barrel  gain. Distillate stockpiles, which include diesel and heating  oil, rose by 8.4 million barrels, versus expectations for an  899,000-barrel increase, the EIA data showed.