  Oil prices settled slightly higher on Friday to put up a fifth straight  weekly gain for U.S. crude, as bullish comments from Russia  contended with a resurgent dollar and a rising oil rig count. U.S. West Texas  Intermediate (WTI) crude settled up 22 cents higher at  $50.85 a barrel, closing the week up 1 percent. Global benchmark Brent crude futures rose 42 cents to $51.80 a barrel by 2:41 p.m. ET (1841 GMT). The contract  is down about 0.3 percent for the week.  A closely watched report from oil services firm Baker Hughes  showed the number of active U.S. oil rigs rose by 11 this week,  the 17th week without a decline in the rig count.  The last time U.S. oil rigs rose by 10 or more was two months  ago, when there were 15 additions in the week of Aug. 15 and 10  in the week of Aug. 19. U.S. crude prices then ranged between $44  and $48.  "This is what we've been anticipating. With prices at these  levels and rising, rig count increases will likely be in the  double digits hereon," said Tariq Zahir, crude trader at Tyche  Capital Advisors in New York.  Some traders and analysts have warned for weeks that U.S. shale  oil drillers, responsible for much of the worldwide crude glut of  the past two years, were likely to ramp up activity with WTI back  at above $50 from 12-year lows of around $26 in February.  A rallying dollar limited oil's advance as greenback-denominated  commodities, including oil, less affordable to holders of other  currencies. The dollar surged to a seven-month high  against a basket of currencies, its third straight week of gains.  Oil prices are up about 13 percent since the Organization of the  Petroleum Exporting Countries announced on Sept. 27 its  first planned output cut in 8 years to rein in a global glut that  halved prices from mid-2014 highs above $100 a barrel.  Prices got support on Friday from Russian comments reiterating  its commitment to joining a producers' output freeze. Russian Energy Minister Alexander Novak  said he would make proposals to his counterpart from OPEC leader  Saudi Arabia this weekend on price-supportive measures.But Novak also said Russia will produce 548 million tons (11  million barrels per day) of oil next year, a post-Soviet record.  "A freeze at all-time record level is not necessarily the tonic  necessary to support prices," said David Thompson, executive  vice-president at Powerhouse, an energy-specialized commodities  broker in Washington.  OPEC will hold a meeting on Nov. 30 to find common ground on  capping oil production. The cartel is expected to work out how  each member country will contribute to a freeze at the  gathering.  "Supply cut discussions have stabilized the prices above $50 a  barrel. What we see now is somewhat consolidating in a  wait-and-see mood," said Frank Klumpp, oil analyst at  Stuttgart-based Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg.  Oil-producing countries are hoping for higher crude prices to  boost their economies. Nigeria's finance minister said on Friday  he hoped oil prices would stabilize in a range of $42-50 a  barrel.  "The near term fundamentals in the oil market have turned  positive. Demand is stabilizing, OPEC production has peaked (and  will fall if cuts are implemented), and global inventory declines  imply that the market is more balanced than many believe," Neil  Beveridge of Bernstein Energy said in a note to clients.  But Olivier Jakob, oil analyst at Petromatrix said: "We have been  cautious in the current (oil) flat price rally, based on our  forecast of an OPEC supply surge in the fourth quarter and a  widening of the Brent contango."