 Oil prices jumped on Wednesday as U.S.  data showed falling crude inventories, stemming deep losses  brought on by a supply glut and signals from OPEC producers and Russia that they  will not cut production. WTI  crude closed 54 cents higher at $56.47  per barrel after surging to a session high  of $58.98. It touched its lowest level since May 2009  at $53.60 on Tuesday.   Front-month  was last up $1 to $61 a barrel shortly on Wednesday.  It traded as high as $63.40 earlier in the afternoon. The January  Brent contract, which expired in the prior session, hit a low of  $58.50 on Tuesday, its weakest since May 2009.  U.S. Energy Information Administration data showing U.S. crude  inventories falling by 847,000 barrels helped curtail losses,  despite expectations of a 2.4-million-barrel draw. Analysts said  the boost would not last long.  "The decline in overall crude oil inventories was smallish," said  John Kilduff, partner at Again Capital LLC in New York. But  analysts said any draw helped support the market after Tuesday  data from the American Petroleum Institute showed a big build in  U.S. crude inventories.  "I think we're just seeing a lot of short covering going into  the end of the year," Keybanc Capital Markets analyst  David Deckelbaum said. Read MoreCrude collapse prompts great rotation  into cash  Prices remain close to 5-1/2-year lows, and have almost halved  over the last six months as increasing volumes of light,  high-quality crude from North American shale have overwhelmed  demand.  Core Gulf OPEC members have said they are prepared to wait as  long as a year for the market to stabilize, undercutting hopes  they will step in to stem crude price losses.  "Every day now you have some Gulf OPEC member actively trying to  talk the market down," said Olivier Jakob, oil analyst at  Petromatrix. "OPEC is trying to choke U.S. oil producers." Read MoreWhy Russia's monster rate hike spells  trouble ahead  Earlier in the day, Iraqi Kurdistan government officials said  Iraqi crude oil exports to the Turkish port of Ceyhan could reach  800,000 bpd next year, higher than previously announced. Oil  shipments from Angola, Africa's second-largest exporter, are also  set to increase in February to 1.86 million barrels per day, the  highest since 2012.  Russian Energy Minister Alexander Novak has said Moscow will not  cut output in 2015, even if pressure on its finances rises with  the economy showing signs of severe stress as the ruble  collapses.  The crisis in Russia has sparked further concerns about energy  demand growth.