  Oil fell on Tuesday, hitting one-month lows, as U.S. gasoline  prices pared an early rally sparked by a pipeline blast and crude  was also pressured by renewed doubts about whether OPEC will  follow through with proposed output cuts.  The American Petroleum Institute (API) reported U.S. crude stocks  rose by 9.3 million barrels in the last week. Analysts had  forecast that U.S. crude stocks had increased by more than 1 million  barrels last week after unseasonal declines in seven of the past  eight weeks also weighed on crude. The API report came ahead of official government data on Wednesday. U.S. West Texas Intermediate (WTI) futures settled  down 19 cents, or 0.4 percent, at $46.67 a barrel, after a near-4  percent drop on Monday. They were lower after the settle following the API release. Brent January crude futures were down 64 cents, or  1.3 percent, at $47.97 a barrel by 4:50 p.m. ET (2050 GMT). They fell by nearly 3 percent the day before in their biggest  one-day drop since Sept. 23.  Crude was up earlier, boosted as the U.S. dollar slid,  making dollar-denominated oil cheaper for users of other  currencies.  Crude was also helped by a gasoline rally after Colonial Pipeline  Co shut its main gasoline and distillates pipelines following an  explosion in Alabama. Gasoline futures jumped 13 percent, then  pared gains on news Colonial had reopened another gasoline  line.  "Oil rode up at first on the Colonial pipeline news, but that  effect has faded," said John Kilduff, partner at New York energy  hedge fund Again Capital.  "All attention is back on OPEC's failure thus far to put together  a convincing production cut plan, and the possibility of higher  U.S. crude stocks from here."  Crude prices rallied about 15 percent over a three-week span  after the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting  Countries proposed on Sept. 27 its first production cut  in eight years to reign in a global oil oversupply. Brent hit  one-year highs and WTI 15-month peaks in early October as OPEC  kingpin Saudi Arabia talked up the plan, inviting non-member  producers such as Russia to make cuts too.  In the past two weeks, however, a growing number of OPEC member  have said they were unwilling or unable to cut, casting doubts on  what the group could do when it meets on Nov. 30 in Vienna.  "Notwithstanding day-to-day rebounds, the oil rally since late  September on the notion of OPEC cuts has been almost wiped out,"  said David Thompson, executive vice-president at Powerhouse, a  commodities-focused broker in Washington.  "It looks like we will break down more momentously unless the  Saudis intervene with big output cuts of their own," said  Thompson, who sees WTI testing support next at $45.  OPEC officials approved on Monday a document outlining the  exporter group's long-term strategy, in a sign its members are  making progress in ironing out differences over how and when to  manage production levels and, ultimately, oil prices.  OPEC has called upon major producers outside of the group to  agree to limit output, but with limited success so far. Top oil  producer Russia has said it will consider freezing output. Kazakh  Energy Minister Kanat Bozumbayev said on Tuesday his country  would not cut output, particularly as the Kashagan field ramps up  to a target of 200,000 bpd by the end of this year.  "Even if the fear of such low prices leads OPEC to deliver an  agreement on November 30, we reiterate our view that the odds of  it succeeding are low," Goldman Sachs said in a research note.  Colonial Pipeline shut down its main gasoline and distillates  pipelines on Monday after an explosion and fire in Shelby,  Alabama, killing a worker and sending five to the  hospital — the second time in two months it had to  close the crucial supply line to the U.S. East Coast.  The site was about a mile west of a massive leak last month that  closed the gasoline pipeline for over 12 days, according to the  office of Alabama Governor Robert Bentley.  Colonial said its main gasoline line could be open as early as  Saturday. Crews have isolated the fire, which came weeks after  its biggest gasoline spill in nearly two decades shut the same  line for 12 days, it said.  The pipeline closure drove up gasoline prices at the pump in the  U.S. Southeast and on futures markets.  The 5,500-mile (8,850-km) Colonial Pipeline is the largest U.S.  refined products pipeline system and transports gasoline, diesel  and jet fuel from the U.S. Gulf Coast to the New York Harbor  area. The pipelines that shut run from Houston to Greensboro,  North Carolina. — CNBC's Tom DiChristopher contributed to this  report.