  Oil prices rose about 1 percent on Friday, trading within a  narrow range, on hopes that non-OPEC producers meeting in Vienna  over the weekend would agree to cut output to bolster OPEC's  own agreement to limit production.  Still, a strong U.S. dollar sapped some of the price strength,  and both crude benchmarks remained nearly 2 percent below the  highs reached after the Organization of the  Petroleum Exporting Countries announced plans to  cut production late last month.  On Saturday, oil ministers from OPEC countries will meet non-OPEC  producers in Vienna to seek help in curbing a global glut. Brent crude for February delivery was up 29 cents at  $54.18 a barrel by 2:35 p.m. ET (1935 GMT), after rising 1.7  percent on Thursday. The contract hit its highest since July 2015  at $55.33 on Monday. U.S. crude for January delivery settled up 66 cents, or  1.3 percent, at $51.50 a barrel.  Both contracts were on track for their first weekly loss in four  weeks.  Gains in the U.S. dollar index versus a basket of currencies,  which makes oil more expensive to many of the world's buyers,  helped pull prices back from the highs reached earlier in the  day.Also on Friday, Baker Hughes reported its count of oil rigs operating in U.S. fields rose by 21 to 498, marking the sixth straight week rose. At this time last year, the rig count stood at 524.  Russia has said it would cut 300,000 barrels per day, meaning  other non-OPEC producers combined would need to pledge the same  amount to lower output by the 600,000 bpd OPEC wants. Russia's  No.2 oil producer Lukoil said on Friday it was ready to take part  in the output cut commitment.  Azerbaijan has said it will come to the Austrian capital with  proposals for its own reduction, while Kazakhstan's energy  minister said they may offer to freeze output at last month's  level.   Still, questions remained over such output plans.  Russia plans to hold additional talks on Friday with some OPEC  and non-OPEC nations to discuss unresolved issues related to the  planned cut in oil output, two Russian sources told Reuters.  "We see event odds as skewing towards a slightly positive price  impact," Macquarie Research analysts said in a note.  "That said, we believe a status quo outcome that keeps the  November deal intact is the most probable scenario and hinges on  a repeated commitment from Russia (300,000 bpd). In addition to  potential cuts from Oman, this scenario could also include softer  commitments due to natural declines (e.g. Mexico) or other less  credible cuts."  OPEC last week agreed to slash production by 1.2 million bpd in  the first half of 2017.  Saudi Arabia and Iraq plan to supply full contracted volumes of  crude to Asia in January, in an effort to retain market share in  Asia, but the former ordered supply cuts to U.S. and European  buyers.— CNBC's Tom DiChristopher contributed to this report.