  Oil prices jumped as much as 3 percent on Wednesday, with U.S.  crude hitting 15-month highs after the government reported a  surprisingly large drop in domestic inventories for the sixth  week out of seven.  Benchmark Brent crude futures were up 89 cents,  or 1.7 percent, at $52.57 a barrel by 2:38 p.m. ET (1838 GMT), having earlier risen as high as $53.14.  U.S. West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude oil futures  settled up $1.31, or 2.6 percent, at $51.60 a barrel, the best settle since July 14, 2015. They touched $51.93 at the peak of the session, the highest level since July 16, 2015, when WTI hit  $52.17.The November contract expires at the end of trading on Thursday. The December contract breached the $52 level during trade on Wednesday.  U.S. commercial crude inventories fell by 5.2 million barrels to  a total of 468.7 million barrels in the week through Oct. 14, the  Energy Information Administration reported. Analysts  polled by Reuters had expected the EIA to report a crude build of  2.7 million barrels.  It is common for crude stocks to build at this time of year as  refineries go into maintenance, turning out less gasoline and  other fuel products. Refinery runs have fallen since the start of  September, reaching 88 percent of capacity last week.  The EIA data also cited lower crude imports as a factor for the  inventory drop. U.S. crude imports slid by 912,000 barrels per  day last week to 6.47 million bpd, the lowest since November  2015.  "The report was bullish due to the large drop in crude oil  inventories," said John Kilduff, partner at New York energy hedge  fund Again Capital.  Still, a surprisingly large build of 2.5 million barrels in  gasoline stocks that contrasted with analysts' expectations for a  1.3 million-barrel drop meant a less rosy outlook for oil for  some.  "So, while the headline number was bullish, we wouldn't call it  extremely bullish given the large gasoline build," said Tariq  Zahir, a trader in timespreads of WTI at Tyche Capital Advisors  in New York.  Also supporting oil in early trade was evidence of declining  production in China, and optimism that the Organization  of the Petroleum Exporting Countries will secure an  output cut at its meeting next month.  Saudi Energy Minister Khalid al-Falih said on  Wednesday that oil markets were at the end of a  considerable downturn as fundamentals were improving and supply  and demand were rebalancing.  He called on non-OPEC producers to help stabilize the market  saying their role was as critical as the role of OPEC members. Russian Energy Minister Alexander Novak said on Wednesday he was  planning to meet Falih this weekend to discuss coordination of  possible actions.  As the world's largest exporters prepare to discuss the first cut  in output in eight years next month, the pressure of persistently  low oil prices on higher-cost producers is becoming apparent.  China's crude output fell 9.8 percent to 3.89 million barrels per  day (bpd), near its lowest in six years in the second-biggest  year-on-year decline on record.  Adding to the support to crude prices from lower output, refining  rates in the world's largest commodities consumer rose last  month.  China processed 43.8 million tons (10.7 million bpd) of crude oil  in September, up 2.4 percent from a year ago.  Mohammed Barkindo, secretary general of the OPEC, gave the market a boost  by saying he is confident about the prospects of a planned  production cut following an OPEC meeting on Nov. 30.  "I am optimistic we will have a decision," he said.OPEC said it plans  to reduce production to 32.5 million to 33 million bpd, compared  with record output of 33.6 million bpd in September.