  Oil prices rose on Thursday in an up-and-down session, lifted by  news that Saudi Arabia had cut production to meet OPEC's  agreement to cut output after falling on data showing a  surprisingly large increase in U.S. gasoline and distillate  inventories.  Saudi Arabia cut oil output in January by at least 486,000  barrels a day to 10.06 million barrels a day, according to a Gulf  source familiar with Saudi oil policy. That would mean the  world's largest crude producer was holding up its end of a  November agreement by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting  Countries to reduce output.  That boosted oil prices, which had slipped after the U.S.  government reported a big increase in U.S. gasoline and  distillate inventories. U.S. light crude oil settled up 50 cents a barrel,  or 0.9 percent, at $53.76. Benchmark Brent  crude oil was up 44 cents a barrel at $56.90, by 2:35 p.m.  ET (1935 GMT), off a session peak of $57.35.  Oil has rallied 23 percent since mid-November and speculators  have jumped on the rally, loading up on long positions in crude  futures in recent weeks in anticipation of OPEC's supply  cuts.  U.S. government data showed futures speculators as of last week  had a bigger net long position in U.S. crude than at any time  since mid-2014.  Some analysts suggested the rally could fizzle out soon,  particularly if the Organization of the  Petroleum Exporting Countries struggles to meet expected  production cuts.  "I figure there's going to be some sort of correction that sticks  with the market soon," said Carl Larry, principal consultant at  Frost & Sullivan, adding he believes the market is too  confident in OPEC's ability to stick with its agreed-upon cuts.  While some believe the rally has stretched too far, betting  against gains has been a losing position for several weeks.  Official figures that reveal whether various countries are  keeping to their word will not be known for a few weeks.  "The problem with being short here is you're not going to see  data that disputes (those statements) until late January," said  Kyle Cooper, consultant with ION Energy Group in Houston.  Still, OPEC's task remains daunting. OPEC output in December was  substantially higher than the level from where it agreed to lower  output by 1.2 million barrels a day, according to a Reuters  survey. That could make it harder to reach its target.  Overall output dipped to 34.2 million barrels a day from 34.4 bpd  in November, still 1.7 million barrels more a day than OPEC's  32.5 million/bpd target.  U.S. crude inventories fell sharply by 7.1 million barrels in the  week through Dec. 30 as refineries hiked output, the U.S. Energy  Information Administration reported. That compared with  expectations for a decline of about 2.2 million  barrels.   But stocks of gasoline and distillates surged as refiners ramped  up production to reduce crude inventories, a typical year-end  practice to avoid higher taxes.  Gasoline stocks rose by 8.3 million barrels, compared with  analyst expectations in a Reuters poll for a 1.8 million-barrel  gain. Distillate stockpiles, which include diesel and heating  oil, rose by 10.1 million barrels, versus expectations for a 1.1  million-barrel increase, the EIA data showed.  Refining runs increased sharply, particularly on the U.S. Gulf  Coast, the main refining hub in the United States. While end-year  refinery activity tends to increase, this was larger than  expected.  "The magnitude of the products changes were much larger than  expected and overwhelming somewhat supportive crude data," said  Scott Shelton, energy specialist at ICAP in Durham, North  Carolina.U.S. gasoline  prices were down about 0.6 percent on Thursday. — CNBC's Tom DiChristopher contributed to this  report.