  Oil prices fell on Wednesday after earlier shrugging off a report  from the U.S. Energy Information Administration that showed the  nation's crude inventories rose and gasoline stocks increased  sharply. U.S. light  crude settled down 43 cents at  $52.75. Benchmark Brent crude fell 25 cents a  barrel to $55.19 by 2:54 p.m. ET (1954 GMT).   Futures fell early in the day after builds in U.S. inventories  reinforced expectations that increasing shale output this year  would reduce the impact of production cuts by OPEC and other  major exporters. However, they turned positive after the EIA  report amid market strength.  Again Capital founding partner John Kilduff said there was little  to cheer in the report, but oil futures can't fight the strength  on Wall Street on a day when the Dow crossed 20,000 for the first  time ever and markets were broadly higher.  "It was a very bearish report, and it's a cloud over this market,  but it's no asset class left behind at the moment," Kilduff said.  U.S. crude stockpiles rose by 2.8 million barrels in the week  through Jan. 20, matching analysts expectations and roughly in  line with an earlier report from the American Petroleum  Institute. U.S. gasoline futures fell to a session low after EIA reported gasoline stocks rose by 6.8  million barrels, compared with analysts' expectations in a  Reuters poll for a 498,000-barrel gain. It pared losses shortly after the report came out.  Distillate stockpiles, which include diesel and heating oil,  increased by 76,000 barrels, versus expectations for a 1  million-barrel drop, the EIA data showed.  Oil prices have found support in recent weeks from plans by the  Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and  other producers to reduce output.  Around 1.5 million barrels per day (bpd) has already been taken  out of the market from about 1.8 million bpd agreed by oil majors  starting on Jan. 1, energy ministers said on Sunday, as producers  look to reduce oversupply.  Bernstein Energy said global oil inventories declined by 24  million barrels to 5.7 billion barrels in the fourth quarter of  last year from the previous quarter. The amount remaining equates  to about 60 days of world oil consumption.But as OPEC is cutting, U.S. shale output is rising.  U.S. oil production has increased by more than 6 percent since  mid-2016, although it remains 7 percent below its 2015 peak.  Output is back to levels reached in late 2014, when strong U.S.  crude output contributed to a crash in oil prices.  President Donald Trump's promise to support the U.S. oil industry  has encouraged analysts to revise up their forecasts of growth in  U.S. oil production, which is already benefiting from higher  prices.  A push by Republicans in the U.S. House of Representatives for a  shift to border-adjusted corporate tax could help push U.S. crude  prices higher than global benchmark Brent, triggering large-scale  domestic production, according to Goldman Sachs.— CNBC's Tom DiChristopher contributed to this report.