  Oil prices fell to their lowest level in a week on Wednesday on  expectations U.S. producers would boost output, while OPEC  signaled a drop in the global oil supply surplus this year as the  producer group's output fell from a record high. U.S. West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude oil  futures settled down $1.40, or 2.7 percent, at $51.08  per barrel. Brent crude  futures, the international benchmark for oil prices, were  down $1.51, or 2.7 percent, at $53.96 a barrel at 2:34 p.m. ET  (1734 GMT).  U.S. shale production is set to snap a three-month decline in  February, the U.S. Energy Information Administration said on  Tuesday, as energy firms boost drilling activity with crude  prices hovering near 18-month highs.  February production will edge up 40,750 barrels per day (bpd) to  4.748 million bpd, the EIA said. In January, it was expected to  drop by 5,900 bpd.  "The petroleum markets have turned lower again in Wednesday trade  amid talk that higher oil prices will translate into additional  U.S. shale-oil production as a counter-balance to OPEC efforts to  trim supply and reduce excess inventories," Tim Evans, Citi  Futures' energy futures specialist, said in a note.  The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting  Countries signaled a falling oil supply surplus in 2017  on Wednesday as the exporter group's output slips from a record  high ahead of a deal to cut supply and outside producers show  positive initial signs of complying with the accord.  Under the agreement, OPEC, Russia and other non-OPEC producers  have pledged to cut oil output by nearly 1.8 million bpd,  initially for six months, to bring supplies back in line with  consumption.  However, OPEC, in a monthly report, also pointed to the possibly  of a rebound in U.S. output, as higher oil prices following  supply cuts by other producers support increased shale drilling.  "OPEC's regular dose of bullish rhetoric intending to prop up  values has begun to wear thin," Jim Ritterbusch, president of  Chicago-based energy advisory firm Ritterbusch & Associates,  said in a note  OPEC, excluding Indonesia, pumped 33.085 million barrels per day  (bpd) last month, according to figures OPEC collects from  secondary sources, down 221,000 bpd from November.  OPEC cut its forecast of supply in 2017 from non-member countries  following pledges by Russia and other non-members to join OPEC in  limiting output.OPEC now expects non-OPEC supply to rise by 120,000 bpd this  year, down from growth of 300,000 bpd last month, despite an  upwardly revised forecast of U.S. supply.  A committee responsible for monitoring compliance with the  agreement meets in Vienna on Jan. 21-22.  The output cuts agreed by OPEC and others are likely to come  largely from field and refinery maintenance, BMI Research said in  a note. It said oil producers are expected to use lower volumes  needed for domestic power generation in a bid to maintain export  volumes.  "Sticking to output targets is important but export volumes from  the participating countries are a much better indicator of how  the cuts will affect the market," it said.  "Participating members are keen not to sacrifice vital export  revenue so are trying to find ways to limit domestic crude usage  in order to prioritize filling their contracts to foreign  refiners."  Analysts forecast U.S. crude stocks fell by about 1 million  barrels in the week ended Jan. 13. The American Petroleum  Institute (API) will release its inventory report on Wednesday at  4:30 p.m. EST.