  Oil prices fell nearly 2 percent on Monday, snapping two  consecutive days of gains, on caution over galloping Middle East  crude output and a stronger dollar that was boosted by  speculation of a U.S. rate hike by the year-end.  Iraq, which has exported more crude from its southern ports in  August, will continue ramping up output, its oil minister said on  Saturday. Top exporter Saudi Arabia has kept output at around  record levels this month.  The dollar hit a three-week high against the yen after  Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen bolstered expectations in a  speech on Friday that the central bank would raise interest rates  soon. A stronger dollar makes commodities denominated in the  greenback less affordable for holders of other currencies.  "A much stronger U.S. dollar is causing selling pressure today,"  said Carsten Fritsch of Commerzbank. "Speculative financial  investors in particular are likely to use this as an opportunity  to take profits."  Focus on surging Middle East production and the strengthening  dollar also offset data from energy monitoring service Genscape  showing a drawdown of 287,444 barrels at the Cushing, Oklahoma  delivery point for U.S. crude futures during the week ended Aug.  26, traders who saw its report said. Brent  crude fell 0.66 cents, or 1.32 percent, to $49.26 a barrel, almost erasing gains from the  previous two sessions. U.S.  crude was down 66 cents, or 1.39 percent, at $46.98 after  falling more than $1 at the session low.  Oil rallied with few stops from early August until mid last week  after hints by Saudi Arabia and fellow members of  the Organization  of the Petroleum Exporting Countries that they may agree  to an output freeze with non-OPEC oil producers at a meeting in  Algeria on Sept. 26-28.  "The market is increasingly likely to discount the outcome of the  event, given, even in the instance of a freeze being agreed,  compliance will be an issue," Barclays said in a report.  Even so, some analysts cautioned investors against taking an  outright short position on oil.  "While a price decline into the $45-46 zone is certainly  possible, such a price down move would likely elicit even more  OPEC hype that could temper or preclude further downside price  follow through," said Jim Ritterbusch of Chicago-based oil  markets consultancy Ritterbusch & Associates.  "So, while we see high probability of some 80 to 90 percent of a  return to $39 WTI, we also feel that achievement of this  objective could still be some four to five weeks away."Oil prices are less than half their level of mid-2014 because of  a persistent supply glut. The chief executive of U.S. oil company  ConocoPhillips,  Ryan Lance, said at an industry conference in Stavanger, Norway,  he believed oversupply would extend into 2017.