  Brent crude and WTI prices slipped on Tuesday after the  International Energy Agency (IEA) warned that oil prices may  decline as stocks continue to increase this year. U.S. crude  futures closed down $2.84, at $50.02 a barrel after hitting a session low of $49.91 a barrel.   Brent crude fell about $2 to  $56 a barrel, ending a three-day rally. The benchmark gained more  than 9 percent last week, its biggest weekly rise since February  2011.  Oil stocks held by countries in the Organisation for Economic  Cooperation and Development may come close to the all-time high  of 2.83 billion barrels in the middle of 2015, said the IEA,  which advises the West on energy policy.  "Despite expectations of tightening balances by end-2015,  downward market pressures may not have run their course just  yet," the IEA said in a monthly report. Read MoreForget rally, oil heading lower:  Analyst  Vitol chief Ian Taylor, speaking at the International Petroleum  Week industry conference, said he expected a "dramatic" build in  oil stocks over the next few months but that supply and demand in  the oil market would move into balance in the second half of this  year.  China's consumer inflation hit a five-year low for January,  raising worries about oil demand in the world's second-largest  economy.  "Economic activity is slowing, especially in heavy industry and  that inevitably weighs on commodities," Michal Meidan, director  of independent consultancy China Matters, said in the Reuters  Global Oil Forum.  Oil prices received a boost on Monday after a monthly report by  the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC)  raised the forecast for 2015 demand for its oil to 29.2 million  barrels per day (bpd), up 430,000 bpd from an earlier forecast. Read MoreShock report: Oil to  fall to $20?  The IEA's medium-term report released on Tuesday predicted demand  for OPEC oil would hold at 29.4 million bpd this year, and said  U.S. shale oil output growth would pause before regaining  momentum.  U.S. crude snapped three days of gains after a preliminary survey  showed that U.S. commercial crude stockpiles likely hit a record  high last week.  "Another report of strong builds in inventories in this week's  EIA market report could halt oil's rally," ANZ bank said on  Monday, referring to the U.S. Energy Information Administration's  stockpiles data release due on Wednesday.  Elsewhere, Libya's Hariga port has reopened after guards ended a  strike over salary payments, and the terminal will start loading  tankers once better weather allows, a facility spokesman said.