  Oil prices rose in quiet trading on Thursday, supported by strong  U.S. economic data, a pause in the U.S. dollar rally and optimism  that crude producers would abide by an agreement to limit output.  The gains were curbed by an unexpected rise in U.S. crude  inventories last week and moves by Libya to boost output over the  next few months. Brent futures for February delivery rose 59 cents,  or 1.1 percent, to $55.05 a barrel by 2:36 p.m. ET (1928 GMT),  having previously finished 89 cents lower.  U.S. West Texas Intermediate crude settled up 46 cents,  or 0.88 percent to $52.95 a barrel, after closing the previous  session down 81 cents.   The dollar index, which tracks the greenback against a basket  of six currencies was roughly flat as investors took  profits after its rise to a 14-year peak earlier this week. A  weaker dollar makes greenback-denominated commodities including  oil cheaper for holders of other currencies.  New orders for U.S.-made capital goods rose more than expected in  November amid strong demand for machinery and primary metals,  suggesting some of the oil-related drag on manufacturing was  starting to fade.  U.S. data also showed the economy grew faster than previously  estimated in the third quarter, notching its quickest pace in two  years.  Optimism that OPEC and non-OPEC oil producers would stick to a  deal to cut output by almost 1.8 million bpd from Jan. 1 also  supported prices, which have added to gains since the deal was  agreed on Dec 10.  "The announcements coming from Saudi Arabia, the United Arab  Emirates, Qatar, Kuwait, Iraq, and Russia are all encouraging  signs that they will abide by the cut and hopefully other  countries will follow suit," OPEC member Kuwait's oil minister  Essam Abdul Mohsen Al-Marzouq told reporters.  Ric Spooner, chief market analyst at CMC Markets in Sydney, said  he was also upbeat about upcoming cuts: "It is a safe assumption  particularly in the early stages that OPEC and non-OPEC producers  will abide by the agreement to curb output."  "If you look at where the biggest production cuts are coming  from, it's largely about the Gulf states and Russia — this  gives me even more comfort there will be material compliance," he  said.  That came as Russian Energy Minister Alexander Novak on Wednesday  said trust between oil producing countries is important if the  global deal to curtail output is to succeed.On the downside for oil prices, U.S. crude stocks posted a  surprise build last week, climbing by 2.3 million barrels  compared with an expected decline of 2.5 million barrels,  government data showed on Wednesday.  Libya's National Oil Corporation (NOC) said it hoped to add  270,000 barrels per day (bpd) to national production after it  confirmed on Tuesday that pipelines leading from the Sharara and  El Feel fields had reopened. NOC said that Sharara output reached  58,000 bpd on Wednesday.  "Short-haul crude oil supplies to Europe are increasing with the  restart of Libya and that will provide a cap for European crude  oil strength," Olivier Jakob, managing director of PetroMatrix  consultancy, said.  Libya recently doubled output to 600,000 bpd, but Jonathan  Barratt, chief investment officer at Sydney's Ayers Alliance,  said the country had the capacity to ramp up production to 1.2  million bpd.