  Oil prices fell about 2 percent on Wednesday as data showing  large weekly builds in U.S. petroleum products offset a surprise  draw in crude stockpiles.  The U.S. Energy Information  Administration reported that crude inventories fell 559,000  barrels during the week ended Sept. 9. Analysts had expected a  build of 3.8 million barrels.  But the EIA also reported that inventories of distillates, which  include diesel and heating oil, rose by 4.6 million barrels in  the week to Sept. 9, versus analysts' expectations of an increase  of 1.5 million barrels. That build weighed on broader market  sentiment, forcing crude futures to reverse gains.  Gasoline stocks rose by 567,000 barrels, compared with analysts'  expectations in a Reuters poll for a 343,000-barrel  gain.   "A build to gasoline stocks amid lower runs and lower product  supplied counters the bullish theme, as does a strong build to  distillates," said Matthew Smith, analyst at New York-based crude  cargo tracker Clipperdata. "So, it's a mixed report - bullish  crude and bearish products." Brent crude  futures were down 92 cents, or 2 percent, at 46.18 per  barrel at 1:44 p.m. ET (1744 GMT). U.S. West Texas Intermediate  futures future fell 93 cents, or 2.1 percent, to $43.97 a barrel.  Both Brent and WTI rose briefly after the EIA reported the latest  crude drawdown, which followed the previous week's surprise  decline of 14.5 million barrels. That earlier draw, the most for  a week since 1999, was due to Tropical Storm Hermine delaying oil  arrivals into the U.S. Gulf Coast for several days.  "So, the million-dollar question is really a 14.5 million barrel  question ... as in where did all those barrels go to? The market  was expecting some sort of a 'make up call' after last week's  storm affected mega-draw," said David Thompson, executive vice  president at commodities-focused broker Powerhouse in Washington.  Some said the next EIA data could shed light on that. "Next  week's report will be telling, whether last week's lost barrels  finally show up in the petroleum balance sheet," said John  Kilduff, partner at New York energy hedge fund Again Capital.  Gasoline and distillate futures fell more than 2 percent each.  Distillates also hit a two-week low as investors worried whether  the coming autumn will be cold enough to boost heating oil demand  adequately.  "The big rise in distillate inventories should weigh, as the  category assumes the mantle of seasonal leadership," Kilduff  added.  On Tuesday, crude futures settled down 3 percent after the  world's energy watchdog and OPEC both revised forecasts that  signaled the global crude glut could persist much longer than  expected.  The Organization  of the Petroleum Exporting Countries pointed to a larger  surplus next year due to new fields in non-member countries. U.S.  shale drillers are proving more resilient than expected to cheap  crude, OPEC added.  Commerzbank said in a note that the delay in rebalancing is  largely due to a rise in production from OPEC members of the   and that the market would be balanced already if OPEC had  maintained its production at May's levels.  "Rather than talking about capping oil production as it was  planning to do at the end of September, OPEC would be better  advised to think about reversing the production growth of recent  months," Commerzbank analyst Carsten Fritsch said.  OPEC is expected to meet with non-members led by Russia at an  industry conference in Algeria on Sept. 26-28 to discuss a crude  production freeze. Few analysts believe the two sides will reach  a deal.