U.S. oil prices sank 3.7 percent on Tuesday after Goldman Sachs  suggested the recent rally was unsustainable and as analysts  expected another U.S. stockpile build.  Comments from Goldman Sachs analysts that poured cold water over  the prospects for a sustained rally also piled pressure on  prices.  Differing views on a plan to limit oil output also put the market  on the defensive. Kuwait, which produces 3 million barrels per day  (bpd), said it will freeze output only if all major producers  participate, including Iran, which has balked at the plan.  News of a meeting of Latin American crude producers set in Quito  for Friday had boosted oil prices on Monday, and the bullish  sentiment earlier swept over into Tuesday's session.  "The comments out of Kuwait have encouraged the sell-off and it  appears likely that a focus on weekly oil inventories will  encourage prices lower," said Matt Smith, director of commodity  research at New York-based Clipper Data. Brent crude  futures were down $1.28, or 3.09 percent, at $39.58 a barrel, following six days of consecutive gains.   During the session it hit a 2016 high of $41.48, representing  50-percent rise from a 12-year low of $27.10 struck less than two  months ago. U.S. West Texas  Intermediate (WTI) futures were settled 3.7 percent lower, or $1.40, at $36.50 a barrel, after briefly rallying to a  three-month high of $38.39.    Goldman Sachs said rising oil prices "simply are not sustainable  in the current environment".  The energy market "needs lower prices" to keep U.S. shale  producers from ramping up output, Goldman said in a report.  Otherwise, "an oil price rally will prove self-defeating, as it  did last spring."  SEB chief commodities analyst Bjarne Schieldrop agreed, saying that falling  U.S. shale oil rig numbers could soon rise again, halting the  recent price rally.  A Reuters poll of oil analysts forecast that U.S. crude stocks  likely rose 3.6 million barrels last week, pushing total  inventories to a record high for a fourth week.  The American Petroleum Institute will release more preliminary  stockpiles data at 4:30 p.m. EST (2130 GMT), before official  numbers on Wednesday from the U.S. government's Energy  Information Administration (EIA).  Separately, monthly loading programs suggest North Sea crude  supply should hit a four-year peak in April, holding above 2  million bpd for an eighth consecutive month.  In a development that could support a further rally, the EIA said  it expected U.S. production for this year to drop 760,000 bpd  versus 740,000 bpd previously. It also cut its 2016 demand growth  forecast by 80,000 bpd versus 110,000 barrels previously.  On the demand side, China's crude imports jumped 19.1 percent  between January and February to 31.80 million tons, or about 8  million barrels per day, despite overall weak trading figures  released on Tuesday.   "Higher 'teapot' (independent refinery) demand and stronger  refining margins ... have contributed to increased imports.  Falling domestic crude production is also supportive," said  Virendra Chauhan of Energy Aspects.   China's February vehicle sales, a key driver for gasoline demand,  were down 3.7 percent year on year, data from the country's  Passenger Car Association showed.   "This is really a poor start for trade this year," said Zhang  Yongjun, senior economist at the China Centre for International  Economic Exchanges.