  Oil prices rose as much as 2 percent on Thursday as traders covered short positions a day after crude  futures were hammered by weak U.S. demand for fuel during the  traditionally busy summer driving season.  Key crude benchmarks Brent and U.S. West Texas Intermediate (WTI)  lost about 4 percent on Wednesday as a raft of bearish U.S.  inventory data heightened concerns about a global glut.  Oil was also helped higher on Thursday as the dollar weakened on  the pound's rally after the Bank of England's surprise decision  not to cut rates.  A weaker dollar tends to make greenback-denominated oil more  attractive to holders of other currencies. The UK central bank  was widely expected to ease after Britain's vote last month to  leave the European Union caused market turmoil.  The perception that the previous day's move was excessive also  supported crude.  "It's always the case a day after a big rally or sell-off for  people to feel it was overdone," said Phil Flynn, an analyst with  Chicago brokerage Price Futures Group.  "The argument is also on what's the fair price for oil? I think  $44 is a good support, as $40 or below will again deter  investments," he said. Brent  crude oil traded 2 percent higher, up 94 cents, at $47.20 a  barrel, off a session peak of $47.47. U.S.  crude settled up 93 cents, or 2 percent, at $45.68,  after rising as high as $45.80 earlier in the session.  U.S. crude stocks fell less than expected last week, while  distillate inventories rose the most since January and gasoline  stocks unexpectedly increased, the Energy Information  Administration (EIA) said on Wednesday.  Many had expected record driving trips and low pump prices to  boost gasoline usage this summer. A glut in refined products  globally is putting crude under pressure, with Middle East grades  in particular hit by low Asian demand.  Adding to the bearish picture, the International Energy Agency  (IEA) said on Wednesday a persistent global crude glut weighed on  oil despite demand growth and declines in non-OPEC production.  Data on Thursday from market intelligence firm Genscape showed a  171,511-barrels build at the Cushing, Oklahoma delivery hub for  WTI futures during the week to July 12, traders said.  Technically, crude may be poised for another fall, said Tamas  Varga of PVM Oil Associates in London, who said Brent could break  below its 100-day moving average of $44.84 as early as next week.