 Benchmark oil prices fell to new five-year lows after OPEC  cut its demand outlook for global oil consumption and U.S. data  showed a surprise jump in oil inventories. In a monthly report, the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting  Countries forecast demand for the  group's oil will drop to 28.92 million  barrels per day in 2015, down 280,000 bpd from  its previous expectation. U.S. crude futures for  January settled 4.5 percent lower at $60.94 per barrel, the  lowest since July 2009.   fell by  nearly $3 to $64 a barrel, having earlier touched $60.63, a  level not seen since July 16, 2009.   The U.S. government's Energy Information Administration showed  U.S. commercial crude inventories climbed 1.5 million barrels  last week. Analysts had anticipated a draw down of 2.2  million barrels. Stockpiles of U.S. crude stood at 380.8 million  through the week ending Dec. 5.   Gasoline stocks also rose by 8.2 million barrels, compared with  analysts' expectations in a Reuters poll for a 2.5  million-barrel build. Read MoreThe countries slammed worst by plunging  oil prices The price of the North Sea oil benchmark has fallen more  than 40 percent since June as new supplies of high-quality crude  from North America have fed a glut of fuel in many parts of the  world. "There is a growing realization that the first half of next  year is going to look very weak," said Gareth Lewis-Davies,  strategist at BNP Paribas. "You start to price that in  now."  Read MoreDon't look for oil glut to end any time  soon  The U.S. Energy Information Administration cut its global oil  demand growth estimate for 2015 by 240,000 barrels per day to  880,000 bpd. It forecast oil demand growth this year would be  around 960,000 bpd.  Global oil demand has been capped by slowing economic growth in  China as well as stagnation in many more-developed economies,  particularly in Europe.  "The fundamental picture hasn't really changed, and that is one  of supply outstripping demand growth for most of the year," said  Phin Ziebell, a senior analyst at National Australia Bank.  "It's an incessant march downwards, and it would be interesting  to see where it bottoms out, but there doesn't seem to be any  sign of it so far." Read MoreWill oil's drop hurt renewable  energy?.   Members of OPEC are divided on how to respond to the global  surplus and falling prices. The cartel may still hold an  emergency meeting before its June gathering, Algeria's energy  minister said on Tuesday.  Italian oil and energy group Eni said OPEC may cut output in the  spring and that oil prices will remain between $66 and  $75 per barrel next year. Top oil producer Saudi Arabia blocked production cuts at  the last meeting in November and has taken steps to shore up its  market share —CNBC.com contributed to this report. Correction: Prices of U.S. crude futures and Brent futures were misstated in an earlier version of this article. 