  U.S. crude prices on Monday settled sharply lower after briefly breaking below $40 a barrel for the  first time since April, weighed by a survey showing output in  OPEC reached record highs last month amid the biggest addition of  U.S. oil rigs in two years. U.S. West Texas  intermediate (WTI) ended 3.7 percent lower, or $1.54, at $40.06 — its lowest settlement since April 20 — after sliding as low as $39.86 just after midday.  Brent  crude was down $1.34, or 3.1 percent, at $42.19 a  barrel, after reaching an intraday low of $41.87.  Both benchmarks fell around 15 percent in July, with the decline  being WTI's largest monthly drop in a year.  John Kilduff, founding partner at energy hedge fund Again  Capital, said sentiment has turned decidedly negative, as evidenced by a  rise in short positions in WTI futures and a "complete  abandonment" of speculative long positions, said .  "It's built upon the glut that's out there that everyone thought  was going to be clearing, but hasn't," he told CNBC.  "All the theses of the bulls in this market are becoming  unwound," he said.  Production in July by the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting  Countries likely rose to its highest in recent history, a Reuters  survey found on Friday, as Iraq pumped more and Nigeria squeezed  out additional crude exports despite militant attacks on oil  installations.  Top OPEC exporter Saudi Arabia also kept output close to a record  high, the survey found, as it met seasonally higher domestic  demand and focused on maintaining market share instead of  trimming supply to boost prices.There are also signs Saudi Arabia is once again chasing market share. Saudi Aramco, the state-controlled oil company, cut its official  selling price (OSP) for its benchmark Arab Light grade for  September-loading cargoes by $1.30 a barrel to a discount of  $1.10 to the regional marker Oman-Dubai.  U.S. oil drillers, meanwhile, added 44 rigs in July, the most in  a month since April 2014, data from oil services company Baker  Hughes showed.  On Monday, Iraqi oil officials said oil exports from Iraq's  southern ports rose to 3.2 million barrels per day (bpd) on  average in July, up from 3.175 million bpd in June, as the OPEC  nation increased crude production.  Also on Monday, Iran's oil minister said the oil market was  oversupplied but said balance between demand and supply will be  restored, Iranian state television reported.  "Prices remain under pressure but we think they are likely to  find a floor at around $40 and increase to $50 by the year end,"  Weinberg said.  French bank Societe Generale said that the global oil market has  shifted from massive oversupply to broadly balanced in the second  half of this year and first half of next year.  Analysts at the bank expect crude prices to bottom out in the  high $30s and should not return to lows of $26-27 seen in the  first quarter of this year.  Earlier on Monday, Barclays said Brent crude has averaged $46.50  in the third quarter so far and could fall further from current  price levels.  The global glut of oil still weighs on the market and even though  summer is a good time to make supply adjustments, it is already  halfway over, the bank said in a research note.  "Demand growth remains lacklustre and has not made significant  inroads to clear the inventory overhang for oil," Barclays said.  "With the macroeconomic picture worsening and Saudi Arabia  unlikely to exhibit much restraint as Iran seeks incremental  market share, refineries are going to find themselves in the line  of fire," Barclays added.— CNBC's Tom DiChristopher contributed to this story.