  Oil prices dipped on Friday, retreating from eight-week highs, as  market participants took profits from one of this year's  strongest rallies in crude that analysts called fundamentally  unjustified.  Crude futures have surged nearly $10 a barrel, or almost 25  percent, in just over two weeks on speculation that Saudi Arabia  and other members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting  Countries will agree next month to a production freeze  deal with non-OPEC members led by Russia.  "We would argue that improved fundamentals are not a key reason  for the recent price bounce," analysts at Morgan Stanley said in  a note.  "Crude oil demand is anemic, gasoline demand has decelerated  globally, and China crude oil imports are likely to decelerate,"  the analysts said, adding that supply could surprise to the  upside in a number of countries. International  benchmark Brent crude oil futures were trading down 17 cents at $50.72 per barrel, but on pace for a roughly 8 percent  gain on the week. The session peak was $51.22, the highest since  June 22. U.S. West Texas  Intermediate (WTI) crude futures rose 30 cents to $48.52  a barrel. For the week, U.S. oil gained more than 9 percent from  last Friday's close of $44.19. They earlier reached $48.75,  its highest since July 5.  "We feel that this month's approximate $9 crude advance could  easily be followed by an equivalent sized price decline next  month," Jim Ritterbusch of Chicago-based oil markets consultancy  Ritterbusch & Associates.  "The US production factor has taken on a more bearish appearance  as the oil rig counts have increased appreciably," Ritterbusch  said, ahead of another rise in weekly U.S. rig count reading.  Oilfield services firm Baker Hughes reported the number of rigs operating in  U.S. fields rose for an eighth consecutive week, increasing by 10  to a total of 406. The report marked the first time the count has  exceeded 400 since February.  At this time last year, the oil rig count stood at 674.  Also on Friday, the dollar rose nearly half a percent against a basket of  currencies, making greenback-denominated oil more expensive to  holders of other currencies.  OPEC will hold an informal meeting in Algeria next month with  producers outside the group. Some in the market have speculated  that a production sharing deal might be in the works.  Saudi Arabia has helped stoke that perception, after scuttling a  similar plan in April. Many, including OPEC member Nigeria, do  not think there will be a deal.  Nigerian oil minister Emmanuel Ibe Kachikwu said on Thursday that  while a cut in OPEC production is unlikely, there is hope a  meeting of producers in Algeria next month could help shore up  crude prices.  However, analysts and traders warned the rally was overblown,  especially since planned talks between the OPEC and other  major producers like Russia to rein in on ballooning  overproduction were unlikely to lead to a reduced supply  overhang.   Data showed Iraq has resumed pumping oil from fields operated by  the state-run North Oil Company via a Kurdish pipeline to Turkey  for the first time since March at a rate of around 70,000 barrels  per day, with plans to double the volume next week.  In Libya, the National Oil Corporation began to load a tanker  with crude from storage tanks at the country's eastern Zueitina  port, which has been shut since November.  Meanwhile, Iran's crude oil production was flat in June at 3.610  million bpd, official data showed on Friday. Iran has been the  main stumbling block in a global production freeze initiative,  insisting it will be ready for joint action only after it regains  output levels seen before sanctions of 4 million bpd.  — CNBC's Tom DiChristopher contributed to this  story.