  U.S. oil prices dipped on Friday after an early rise to 2016 peaks,  but posted a gain of about 20 percent for April, the largest  monthly gain in a year.Futures held losses after oilfield services firm Baker Hughes reported its weekly U.S. oil rig count fell by 11 to 332. At this time last year, drillers were operating 679 oil rigs.  A weaker dollar and optimism that a global oil glut will ease  have boosted crude futures about $20 a barrel or more since they  plumbed 12-year lows below $30 in the first quarter.  With prices less than $5 away from $50 a barrel, investment bank  Jefferies said the market "is coming into better balance" and  would flip into undersupply in the second half of the year.  But others warned that the rally was driven by investors holding  large speculative positions, while oil stockpiles were still  high, with a Reuters survey showing OPEC output in April rising  to its most in recent history.  "The issue is that we haven't seen price rallies ... correlate  with fundamentals," said Hamza Khan, senior commodity strategist  at ING. "The fundamentals - high stocks, high production -  haven't changed."  Technical analysts said crude could cruise to $50 a barrel but  stiffer resistance before $55 could spark profit-taking on the  market's biggest rebound in two years. Brent crude  futures was flat at $48.14 a barrel, after setting a 2016 high of $48.50. U.S.  crude fell 11 cents, or 0.2 percent, to settle at $45.96 after hitting a  year-to-date peak at $46.78.  The discount in spot U.S. crude to the next trading month  meanwhile whittled to its smallest since January, reducing the  advantages of storing oil in the United States for later  delivery.  Analysts polled by Reuters raised their average forecast for  Brent in 2016 to $42.30 per barrel, the second consecutive month  of increases.  Supply from the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries  rose to 32.64 million barrels per day (bpd) this month, from  32.47 million bpd in March, according to the survey, based on  shipping data and information from sources at oil companies, OPEC  and consultants.  The OPEC survey aside, Saudi oil output was expected to edge up  by 350,000 barrels to around 10.5 million barrels per day,  sources told Reuters, as tankers filled with unsold oil floated  at sea seeking buyers.  Also on Friday, Libyan officials said the country's National Oil  Corporation has ambitious plans to restore output to pre-2011  levels after years of violence and disruption.  Oil output is now less than a quarter of the 1.6 million barrels  per day Libya pumped before Muammar Gaddafi fell in 2011, and the  National Oil Corporation (NOC) in Tripoli hopes to ramp it up  swiftly with the backing of a new unity government.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch said in a note that "non-OPEC oil  supply is indeed hanging off a cliff", and estimated that global  output would contract year on year in April or May for the first  time since 2013.  There are also growing risks that production in OPEC member  Venezuela could decline. Risk consultancy Eurasia Group said the  state was running out of cash to keep its oil pumps running.  "Mounting problems will probably lead to a decline of  100,000-150,000 bpd this year," Eurasia Group said.