  Since crude prices cratered, no oil-producing country has  eliminated as much production as the U.S.    After OPEC's  November 2014 decision to let the market set prices, the price  of oil declined, yet U.S. oil production continued to gain temporarily, topping out  at 9.6 million barrels a day in April. But since then, U.S.  output has fallen by about a half million barrels a day, dipping  to 9.1 million barrels a day in the latest weekly government  figures. More declines are expected.  "Nowhere else in the world have we seen that type  of swing down," said Jim Burkhard, IHS chief  researcher of global oil markets.  And this trend is projected to continue, according to the  International Energy Agency and other energy industry market  watchers.   OPEC Secretary General Abdallah Salem El-Badri speaks  Monday afternoon. Ali al-Naimi, the oil minister from Saudi  Arabia, which led the 2014 switch to market-based pricing, will speak at the conference Tuesday morning.   His remarks will be key, since just last week Saudi Arabia and  Russia agreed to a production freeze if other producers join in.  Production would be set at January levels, when Russia was pumping  more than 10.8 million barrels a day, a post–Soviet  Union high, and Saudi Arabia was at about 10.2 million barrels  a day.   "Even if (Naimi) is repeating everything he said before, it  will be an important message either way," said Burkhard.  As oil prices fell into the $30s, the pain intensified for producers. Producing nations are  shaving budgets and cutting domestic programs, but they continue  to pump high levels of crude.  But the U.S. industry responds differently, and the dozens of  companies that make it up traditionally respond quicker to price  moves than other producers."That's why we call [the U.S.] the swing  producer," said Burkhard. Yet the U.S. shale industry has proved to be more  resilient than expected, and it has been able to continue production  at lower pricing levels  Citigroup forecasts that U.S. production could keep falling until  next year if prices stay low."Our most recent forecast had U.S. production fall to as  low as 8 million or 8.1 million barrels a day, until 2017. The lower the  price level, the lower the drilling, and the more likely production declines in the U.S. will be higher," said Edward  Morse, Citigroup's global head of commodities research in a  recent interview.  The talk of a possible freeze by the world's largest oil  producers has helped push oil prices higher, but it is also being  met with skepticism, since it does not include any cutbacks in  output. The other issue is that Iran has said it supports the  deal but has not said it would agree to go along. Iran is  in fact adding oil to the market, as it is in the process of  recapturing export business now that sanctions against its  nuclear program have been lifted.   Russia's Energy Minister, Alexander Novak, said Saturday that  consultations on a preliminary deal to freeze production should  be completed by March 1. He said other non-OPEC producers, like Mexico and Norway, will be consulted. Oil ministers from both  those countries will be speaking at CERAWeek.   But the producer that will not be consulted is the U.S., which  became a more powerful force in the world oil market with the  boom of the tight oil industry. Unlike countries with state-owned oil companies, however, there is no one switch that will turn off or  on U.S.production except for price.  "What's different this time has been the big variable: the U.S.  The U.S. showed an incredible capacity to grow production at an  incredible rate. That's the disruptor. That's the change. The  only thing that talks to U.S. producers is the price of oil,"  said Burkhard.   The U.S. industry has slashed budgets, chopped capital spending  and laid off workers. According to IHS, the top U.S. companies  are cutting back capital spending by more than 50 percent in 2016  over 2015 levels.   "Their guidance just three months ago was not that severe,"said  Burkhard.   But the U.S. industry could also come back faster than the  producers in other parts of the world. Most of the  5-million-barrels-a-day jump in oil production between 2010 and  2015 was due to the unconventional drilling in the U.S.   "We think if oil prices get to $50, U.S. production would start  to grow again," said Burkhard. He said it would take the industry  six to nine months to resume.  According to the IEA in its midterm outlook released Monday, total U.S. liquids production is expected to  increase from 2015 levels by a net 1.3 million barrels per day by  the end of 2021. 