  Oil futures rallied sharply on Tuesday afternoon, with Brent  crude hitting a 2015 high of $63 a barrel as short-covering  returned to the market, which was depressed earlier by worries  about euro zone stability. Brent crude's front-month  contract for April delivery was up $1.10 at $62.50 a barrel,  rebounding from a session low of $60.27. The session peak was  $63, the highest for this year. U.S. crude futures for March closed up 75  cents, or 1.4 percent, at $53.53 a barrel, versus the intraday  low of $50.81. Options expiry in March futures was slated for  Tuesday, ahead of Friday's contract expiry.  Brent crude bounced back into positive territory on Tuesday,  after being dragged lower by weakness in some other commodity  markets. Threats to Middle East crude supplies and expectations  lower prices may prompt a slowdown in U.S. output limited the  fall.  fell by up to 5 percent  and  snapped a three-day  rally. Investors in those commodities remained cautious after a  breakdown of debt talks between Greece and euro zone finance  ministers. Read MoreOil may fall again … but buy  energy stocks?  "I think it all started in silver with squeezing out of long  positions, then spilled over to gold and then to oil," said  Carsten Fritsch, commodities analyst at Commerzbank.  Lending support to oil earlier, Egypt on Monday bombed Islamic  State targets in Libya, where violence has reined in most oil  output. Iraq's semi-autonomous Kurdistan Regional Government  threatened to withhold oil exports if Baghdad failed to send its  share of the budget.  Oil prices collapsed in the second half of 2014 on oversupply.  The Organization of the Petroleum  Exporting Countries refused to cut its output, choosing to  defend market share against U.S. shale oil and other competing  sources. Read MoreSullivan: Houston,  Wall Street differ on oi  Brent has still jumped by about 35 percent in the last four  weeks, supported by a sharp fall in U.S. oil drilling. It had  reached $45.19 on Jan. 13, the lowest in almost six years, down  from $115 in June.  The threat to Iraq's northern exports from the revenue dispute  arises as bad weather has cut Iraq's southern shipments this  month. Read More   With risks to Middle East supply back on the market's radar,  International Energy Agency Chief Economist Fatih Birol warned  the rise of Islamic State presented a major challenge for the  investment necessary to prevent an oil shortage in the next  decade.  Even so, some analysts see the rally as overblown because the  market remains oversupplied. Crude inventories in top consumer  the United States have hit record highs for the last five weeks.  "U.S. refinery outages, through seasonal maintenance and  industrial action, will weaken U.S. crude demand, exacerbating  the crude stock excess in the near term," BNP Paribas analysts  Gareth Lewis-Davies and Harry Tchilinguirian said in a report.