U.S. oil prices closed higher Wednesday in seesaw trading, as strong U.S. gasoline  demand offset worries over record high crude stockpiles.  U.S. government data showed crude stockpiles rose 3.5 million  barrels last week to reach an all-time peak above 507 million  barrels.  But U.S. gasoline demand over the past four weeks rose more than  5 percent compared with a year ago, and inventories of the motor  fuel also slid from record highs on lower refinery runs. Brent  crude was up $1.21 at $34.48 a barrel. U.S.  crude settled at $32.15 a barrel, up 28 cents, or 0.88 percent, after falling more than 4 percent at session lows. Both dropped more than 5  percent in intraday trading on Tuesday.   "It's a mixed bag for both bulls and bears as crude stocks  continue to rise while gasoline and distillate stocks dropped,"  said Chris Jarvis, analyst at Caprock Risk Management in  Frederick, Maryland.  But some traders bet prices will head back lower after Saudi Oil  Minister Ali al-Naimi on Tuesday ruled out production cuts,  although more major producers were likely to join a Saudi-Russia  deal to freeze output at January's highs.  Iran, which opposes any move to limit its oil output until its  crude exports reach pre-sanction levels, called the deal  "laughable."  Oil has slid from more than $100 a barrel in mid-2014, pressured  by excess supply and a decision by the Organization of the  Petroleum Exporting Countries to abandon its traditional role of  cutting production to boost prices.  OPEC and outside producers have stepped up diplomatic activity  after prices slumped to their lowest since 2003 last month. OPEC  and non-OPEC producers, who support the idea of a production  freeze, are planning a mid-March meeting, Venezuela's Oil  Minister said.  "We feel it's just a matter of time before we break below $30 to  the downside," said Tariq Zahir, fund manager at New York's Tyche  Capital Advisors, who is wagering that nearby U.S. crude futures  will weaken versus forward contracts in coming days and weeks.  "The talk of a bottom having formed in crude prices will be  proven wrong again for the umpteenth time," Zahir said.  Crude inventories in the U.S. Gulf Coast refining hub rose to the  highest on record since at least 1990. But gasoline stockpiles  fell for the first time since early November after some  refineries cut back production in response to low margins.  "The crude oil inventory situation is set to worsen by a lot,  given the sub-85 percent refinery run rate," said John Kilduff,  partner at New York energy hedge fund Again Capital. In addition to strong gasoline demand, Kilduff said crude prices seemed to be bouncing off a technical level just below  $31.— CNBC's Tom DiChristopher contributed to this report.