  U.S. oil prices closed well off session lows Monday after a workers' strike in Kuwait slashed the country's oil output by more than half, offsetting  worries about a scuttled plan by major oil producers to freeze  production.  The strike cut more than 60 percent Kuwait's crude output,  lending support to price benchmarks such as Brent and Dubai.  Supply of refined oil product from the country also tightened due  to scaled-back refinery runs and lower fuel exports.  Brent tumbled as much as 7 percent earlier on Monday after oil  majors from the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries  and non-OPEC Russia failed to reach agreement on a plan to freeze  output.  The producers had gathered in Qatar, Doha at the weekend for what  was expected to be the rubber-stamping of a deal to stabilize  output at January levels until October. The deal crumbled when  OPEC heavyweight Saudi Arabia demanded Iran join the plan,  despite Tehran's repeated assertions it would not.  "The material loss in production from the Kuwait strike has  helped the oil market forget about the farce from Doha," said  Matt Smith, director of commodity research at the New  York-headquartered Clipperdata.  Global benchmark Brent was down 24 cents at $42.86.  It had fallen $3 earlier in the session. U.S.  crude settled 58 cents lower, or 1.4 percent, at $39.78,  after sliding to $37.61 at the day's low.  Brent's premium versus WTI was at its widest in nearly two  months.  While fallout from the Doha plan could weigh on a nascent  recovery in oil prices, the market may not tumble as much as it  did earlier this year, when Brent hit 12-year lows of around $27  in late January, some analysts said.  "Gradually declining non-OPEC production as well as planned  maintenance in the face of resilient oil demand in Q1 have  recently pointed to improving oil fundamentals," analysts at  Goldman Sachs said in a note, referring to the first quarter.  A weakening U.S. dollar and the mostly steady climb in global  equities since February was supportive to oil too, traders said.  Supply disruptions in OPEC member Nigeria also helped underpin  prices.   "While a few forecasters may be dusting off some old $20 WTI  expectations as a result of the Doha outcome, we expect solid  support in nearby WTI at the $35 mark," Jim Ritterbusch at  Chicago oil consultancy Ritterbusch & Associates said.  WTI traded off Monday's lows after data from market intelligence  firm Genscape showed crude inventories at the Cushing, Oklahoma  delivery point for U.S. crude futures falling by nearly 860,000  barrels during the week to April 15, traders who saw the data  said.  On Monday, Iran urged other oil producers to continue efforts to  prop up prices, but insisted it was justified in not yet freezing  its own output following the lifting of sanctions in  January.  The deal's collapse revived some fears that government-controlled  producers will ramp up their battle for market share by offering  ever-steeper discounts.  Morgan Stanley said the failure sparked "a growing risk of higher  OPEC supply," especially as Saudi Arabia threatened it could hike  output following the failed deal.  Analysts pointed to the ongoing tension between Saudi Arabia and  Iran as a key reason oil producers failed to reach a deal.   The "meeting exposed that the heightening geopolitical tension  between Saudi Arabia and Iran continues to transcend into the oil  market," analysts at Barclays said in a note, adding that it  hampered "OPEC representatives' ability to save face with even a  simple, vague agreement to do what they had planned to do anyway  for the next couple of months."  — CNBC.com staff contributed to this  report. 