U.S. oil prices rose on Thursday after data showing a weekly drawdown  in U.S. crude stockpiles helped crude markets recover from OPEC's  decision not to set a ceiling for its production.  U.S. crude stockpiles fell 1.4 million barrels in the last week,  the Energy Information Administration said. Although lower than a  2.5 million barrels forecast by analysts, the draw still helped  crude futures erase early losses.  Gasoline stocks fell by 1.5 million barrels, while distillate  fuel inventories were down 1.3 million barrels, EIA said. U.S. crude production also continued to tick down, according to EIA's preliminary weekly data.  International Brent crude oil futures were up 22 cents at $49.94 per barrel. U.S. West Texas Intermediate (WTI)  crude settled 16 cents higher, or 0.3 percent, at $49.17 a barrel.  Futures had fallen more than 1 percent on Thursday as  the Organization  of the Petroleum Exporting Countries ended a recent  meeting without setting a ceiling for its production.  Market participants had followed OPEC's gathering in Vienna for  signs of agreement on reviving the group's collective output  quota proposed by Saudi Arabia or the introduction of individual  member country quotas suggested by Iran.  But the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries failed  to agree on these, with Saudi Arabia, its dominant voice, saying  any "artificial ceiling" would be premature.  Still, Saudi Arabia promised not to flood the market with extra  oil, suggesting a softening of its previous stance where it  rigorously pumped to defend its share of a market oversupplied by  an estimated 1.5 to 2 million barrels per day.  Saudi energy minister Khalid al-Falih told CNBC he believes the  oil market is in good shape.   "The market is balancing. Trends are all good in terms of supply  and demand. Prices have recovered somewhat and I believe they  will continue to recover," he said.  Iran's Oil Minister Bijan Zanganeh, who came to Vienna vowing not  to concede any exports until its crude shipments reached  pre-sanction levels, said he was generally happy with the outcome  of the meeting. He also said he saw no signs that other member  countries wanted to boost output steeply.  Some traders said crude prices were partly pressured by the  dollar's recovery following comments by European Central Bank  President Mario Draghi that were considered bearish for the  euro.  Despite rising output by OPEC's Middle Eastern producers, the  group's overall production has remained largely flat this year,  currently standing at 32.5 million barrels per day (bpd), capped  by disruptions especially in Nigeria, Libya and  Venezuela.   Citi said it expected oil prices to rise above $50 per barrel "in  the near future" as attacks on oil infrastructure in Nigeria,  power outages and payment issues in Venezuela and chaos in Libya  have reined in total OPEC production even as Iran has ramped up  harder and faster than expected.   Because of supply disruptions elsewhere, the Middle East's low  cost producers see little reason to restrain output as overall  market conditions have improved significantly for them this  year.   "Since January 20, oil prices have almost doubled from near $26  per barrel to almost $50 per barrel, at the same time total OPEC  production has increased by around 100,000 bpd, despite heavy  outages in Nigeria," BMI Research said.   "This indicates the strategy championed by Saudi Arabia... to let  the oil market balance without intervening, is gradually playing  out," it added. 