  Crude futures fell on Monday as European markets observed the  Easter break while U.S. data showed hedge funds and other big  speculators still slow to build long positions after the oil  price rebound of the past two months.U.S. crude's West Texas Intermediate (WTI) futures below $40 a barrel as investment banks such as Barclays  and Macquarie warned that market fundamentals were weak enough  that prices could possibly return to mid-, or even lower, $30  levels.  "There's just been too much U.S. crude builds lately for the  market to ignore," said Tariq Zahir, who's betting WTI for  delivery in the near-term will weaken further versus long-term  contracts, expanding the market's so-called contango  structure. 's  front-month fell 18 cents to $40.26 a barrel. Reuters data showed trading in the U.K.-based  benchmark amounted to less than 55,000 lots, about a sixth of  regular volume, due to the Easter break. U.S. crude's front-month contract settled down 0.2 percent, or 7 cents, at $39.39 a barrel.  Both benchmarks were still up about 50 percent from 12-year price  lows seen in mid-February.  Despite the advance, weekly data from the U.S. Commodity Futures  Trading Commission suggested that money managers, including hedge  funds, hesitant to wager all the way on a WTI rally despite a  continuous drop in short positions held by the group.  Managed money's gross long positions in WTI have barely risen  since January and inched up by just 6,000 lots to around 300,000  lots in the week to March 22, the CFTC data showed. The number of  short positions slipped to nearly 64,000 lots, or around 64  million barrels of oil.  Most banks expect little upside to oil prices in the near future.  ""The market likely remains oversupplied by around 0.6 million  bpd (barrels per day) through 1H16 and inventories will continue  to build from already high levels," analysts at Jefferies  International forecast for the first half of the year.  Barclays said net flows into commodities totaled more than $20  billion in January-February, the strongest start to a year since  2011, and prices could fall 20 to 25 percent if that were  reversed.  "Were such a scenario to unfold, the price of oil could fall back  to the low $30s," it said.  Members and non-members from the Organization of the Petroleum  Exporting Countries (OPEC) are due to meet in the Qatari capital  Doha on April 17 to discuss a plan to freeze oil production at  January levels.  So far, 10 countries have confirmed their attendance at the  meeting, with only OPEC-member Libya saying it will not  attend.  "There is going to be pressure on the participants in the meeting  to ensure they achieve something. Otherwise they risk the  support-market sentiment that we are seeing now dissipate  rapidly," said Victor Shum, senior oil and gas analyst at IHS in  Singapore.  U.S. crude oil production fell for a third month in December to  9.26 million barrels per day due to declines in the biggest  shale-producing states, although the fall was offset by a rise  offshore, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration  (EIA).  The EIA said this month that U.S. shale oil production in April  is expected to record its second-largest monthly decline on  record at around 106,000 barrels per day (bpd).