  U.S. crude closed lower in choppy trade, but still recorded weekly gains, as supply disruptions in  Iraq and Nigeria provided supported.  Pipeline outages in Iraq and Nigeria have removed more than  800,000 barrels of crude oil per day from the market for at least  the next two weeks. The disruptions should offset recent  increases to supply from Iran, analysts said.Also on Friday, oilfield services firm Baker Hughes reported the total number of rigs drilling for crude in the United States fell by 13 to a total of 400 in the previous week. At this time last year, there were 986 rigs in U.S. fields.  U.S. stock prices hit their highest in nearly two months after an  upward revision to the country's economic growth for the fourth  quarter. A raft of other U.S. economic data also boosted Wall  Street, which has traded in tandem with oil for weeks.  "Equities have been in a rally mode and with the technical  picture for oil becoming bullish in the short term, we have a  risk-on trade in crude," said Chris Jarvis at Caprock Risk  Management, an energy markets consultancy in Frederick, Maryland.  futures were trading at $35.12 a barrel, down 17 cents from their last close, but rose to $37  earlier in the session, the highest since Jan. 5. For the week,  Brent was up about 7 percent. U.S. West Texas  Intermediate (WTI) crude futures for April delivery closed 29 cents lower, at $32.78 a barrel, but still managed to gain about 3 percent for the week.  Some analysts and traders were pricing oil higher in the  near-term.  Hans Van Cleef, senior energy economist in Amsterdam for ABN  Amro, said Brent's break above the $36.25 technical resistance  indicated "more short covering in the coming days."  Jeffrey Grossman, dealer at New York's BRG Brokerage, said he  expected U.S. crude to trade at over $40 by end of March.  Strong gasoline demand in the United States, and an upward  revision to the country's economic growth for the fourth quarter,  helped boost expectations of oil consumption.  Most analysts said the oversupplied market would not begin to  draw down stocks until early next year, but the disruptions and  demand helped give a near-term boost to markets that are  grappling with crude production that is exceeding demand by 1  million to 2 million barrels per day (bpd).  Data from the U.S. Energy Information Administration showed  gasoline inventories falling last week for the first time since  early November, suggesting that consumers could gobble up more of  the world's oil products than expected.  "The idea that gasoline demand is actually rising suggests that  perhaps the lower prices of crude are actually prompting a  greater usage of this product (gasoline)," said Vyanne Lai, oil  analyst at National Australia Bank.  Investment bank Jefferies called current prices unsustainable and  said production declines across most of the important non-OPEC  producers is likely to set the stage for an oil price recovery in  the second half of this year.