U.S. oil prices tumbled more than 1 percent on Friday, after weekly data showed U.S. drillers added rigs for only  the second time this year.  Drillers added nine oil rigs in the week to June 3, Baker Hughes  said. The closely followed report rekindled fears that U.S. shale  drillers would turn the spigots back on as prices flirted with  $50 a barrel.  Prices had already dipped in early trade on worries about the  U.S. economy, but losses were limited by a weakening dollar,  which makes oil less expensive for buyers using other currencies.  The Baker Hughes report sent prices sharply lower.  "The increase in the rig count as prices near the $50/bbl range  is clearly indicative of the elasticity of U.S. production and  speaks to the tremendous efficiency gains reaped by the U.S.  producer community over recent years," said Michael Tran,  director of energy strategy at RBC Capital Markets in New  York.  Oil traders view falling U.S. output as key to reducing a global  glut of crude that has pressured prices during a steep two-year  slump. Brent crude  futures fell 30 cents to $49.74 per barrel, but were still almost double January lows and on  track for an eighth weekly gain in nine weeks. U.S. West Texas  Intermediate (WTI) crude futures settled 55 cents lower, or 1.1 percent, at $48.62 a barrel.  Oil prices have rallied from this winter's lows due largely to  supply disruptions, particularly in Nigeria, Venezuela, Libya and  Canada. On Friday, militants in the restive Niger Delta region  that produces more than half of Nigeria's oil claimed three new  attacks on oil infrastructure, promising to bring the country's  oil production to "zero."  Still, news that ExxonMobil lifted its force majeure on exports  of Nigeria's Qua Iboe crude oil, looked likely to bring barrels  back to the market.  "If you're starting to see some of those barrels coming back,  well, that's happening ahead of schedule, in my opinion," Bob  Yawger, director of the futures division at Mizuho in New York.  The tone of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries  (OPEC) meeting in Vienna on Thursday supported prices "from the  perspective that none of the major players (except Iran)  indicated that they would be further flooding the market with oil  anytime soon," said Energy Management Institute analyst Dominick  Chirichella.  Weaker-than-expected U.S. non-farm payroll data supported oil by  sending the dollar index to its lowest since  mid-May. However, the weak data also pressured oil prices by  raising concerns about U.S. gasoline demand this summer, Yawger  said.