  Oil prices pared gains after surging as much as 2 percent on Monday as  Venezuela hinted that OPEC and other major oil producers could agree to a  market support deal and clashes in Libya disrupted attempts to  boost crude exports.  Oil was also supported by higher equity prices on Wall Street and  a weaker dollar  that made greenback-denominated commodities, such as crude, more  affordable to holders of the euro and other currencies. Brent  crude futures rose 32 cents cents, or 0.7 percent at  $46.09 per barrel at 1:36 p.m. ET (1736 GMT). U.S. crude was up 28  cents, or 0.7 percent, at $43.31 a barrel.  Meanwhile, U.S. gasoline  futures fell on profit-taking from last  week's rally on the outage of a key gasoline pipeline due to a  leak. Futures were last down 1.7 percent to $1.4362 per  gallon.  Last week, Brent hit a two-week low and WTI fell to a five-week  low on concerns about oversupply with more deliveries from Libya  and Nigeria.Clashes in Libya on Sunday, however, halted the loading of the  first oil cargo from the port of Ras Lanuf as the state-run  National Oil Corporation prepared to restart exports from the  ports blockaded for several years.  Oil prices also rose after Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro  said on Sunday that the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting  Countries and other major oil producers were close to reaching a  deal on price stability that could announced later this month.  OPEC and non-OPEC members are to meet on the sidelines of an  industry conference in Algeria next week for talks on the  potentially freezing oil production.  OPEC members may call an extraordinary meeting to discuss oil  prices if they reach consensus, OPEC Secretary-General Mohammed  Barkindo said on Sunday. OPEC's all-important policy meeting is  due in November. He has previously said discussions in Algiers  will be consultations and no major decisions will be made during  talks with OPEC and non-OPEC producers.  In the past, analysts have persistently discounted the  possibility that OPEC members such as Saudi Arabia, Iran, Nigeria  and Libya will agree to production curbs as they ramped up output  to protect market share. But with the Algiers talks approaching, some opinions were  shifting. Speculators' net long positions in Brent have  stabilized at around levels seen in mid-August as hedge funds bet  on the possibility of an oil output deal, data from last week  showed.  "My bias remains positive as there appears to be more bullish  surprises as of late in a time where the market was pretty  convinced that it was going to be the opposite," said Scott  Shelton, broker for crude and other energy products at ICAP in  Durham, North Carolina.  But John Kilduff, founding partner at Again Capital, said the  Venezuelans, desperate for higher prices amid a national economic  crisis, are jawboning the market at every opportunity.  "The problem they have is the reality that this production from  all of them just keeps going up and we're about to see a big jump  in production once the Libyan situation resolves," he told CNBC's  "Squawk  Box" on Monday.  "The Nigerians are coming back online. And the Russians of all  people are going to bring 200,000 barrels more to the market by  the end of the year from a big field they've got going in the  Caspian, so it's just a joke."Iran's President Hassan Rouhani said Tehran supports any move to  stabilize the global oil market and lift prices, the Iranian oil  ministry news agency SHANA quoted him as saying on Sunday.  Iran, OPEC's third-largest producer, has been boosting its oil  output after the lifting of Western sanctions in January. Tehran  refused to join a previous attempt this year by OPEC and  non-members such as Russia to stabilize production, and talks  collapsed in April.  Concerns about rising supplies remain a bugbear. A preliminary  Angolan November loading plan showed supplies were set to bounce  back from a 10-year low.  Crude exports from OPEC's third biggest producer Iran jumped 15  percent in August from a month ago to more than 2 million barrels  per day, according to a source with knowledge of its tanker  loading schedule, closing in on shipment levels seen five years  ago before Western sanctions.  In the United States, drillers have added oil rigs for 11 out of  the past 12 weeks. Drillers added two oil rigs in the week to  Sept. 16, bringing the total rig count up to 416, the most since  February. — CNBC's Tom DiChristopher contributed to this  story.