  Oil prices were steady to softer on Friday as a stronger dollar  spurred investors to cash in on a second week of gains, with the  focus remaining on the rebalancing of the market as the global  glut faced unplanned supply outages.  The dollar was on course for a third  straight weekly gain on Friday on hints the United States is  getting closer to raising interest rates.  A stronger dollar makes it more expensive for investors to hold  greenback-denominated commodities like oil futures.  Global benchmark Brent crude prices traded 11 cents lower at $48.70 a barrel, off a  six-month high of $49.85 reached two days ago.   U.S. West Texas Intermediate crude  futures settled at $47.75 a barrel, down 41 cents, also  falling from a seven-month high of $48.09. That said, it gained about 4 percent for the week.  Also on Friday, oilfield services firm Baker Hughes reported the  number of oil rigs drilling in U.S. fields remained unchanged  from the previous week at a total of 318.  Oil was still headed for their second straight week of gains,  boosted by growing supply disruptions in oil producing countries  like Nigeria, Canada and Libya.  "The overall market sentiment remains biased to the upside as a  growing contingency of market participants are of the view that  the market is already in a rebalancing pattern and the current  round of unscheduled production cuts are starting to accelerate  the process," said Dominick Chirichella, senior partner at the  Energy Management Institute.  In Nigeria, militant activity has cut oil exports to a more than  22-year low of under 1.4 million bpd.  In Canada, production has also been cut as wildfires forced  closures of around 1 million bpd, although output is gradually  returning.  Libyan output has also been hit by internal conflict.  By some estimates, these outages should undoubtedly lead to a  swifter market rebalancing, but ones like in Nigeria are just the  start.  "The risks are mounting and Venezuela could be the next shoe to  drop," said Michael Tran, director of energy strategy at RBC  Capital Markets in New York.  Other analysts, however, expect oil prices to come further off  recent highs, correcting their recent upwards trend. Prices have  risen for six out the last seven weeks, buoyed by the supply  disruptions.  "We feel that markets have moved too high, too far, too soon,"  Harry Tchilinguirian, lead oil and commodities strategist at  French bank BNP Paribas in London, told Reuters' Global Oil  Forum.  "The combination of a stronger dollar, still excess supply over  demand and ongoing overhang of inventories can be expected to put  strong downward pressure on prices."  He said oil prices could fall to the mid to high $30 range.  Still, the chances of joint action among OPEC and non-OPEC  producers to balance an oversupplied market remained slim.  Russian Energy Minister Alexander Novak said he saw supply in  excess of demand of around 1.5 million bpd.  He poured cold water on expectations of the outcome of the next  meeting of OPEC members on June 2.