  Oil prices were higher on Tuesday, as the dollar relinquished early  gains and expectations of OPEC output curbs lifted crude futures from session lows despite forecasts for a second  straight weekly build in U.S. crude stockpiles.  U.S. crude inventories likely rose by 2.4 million barrels in the  week to Oct. 14, a Reuters poll of oil market analysts found. In  the previous week to Oct 7, stocks grew by 4.9 million barrels.  The American Petroleum Institute (API), an industry group, will  issue its report on domestic oil stocks at 4:30 p.m. EDT (2030  GMT), after Tuesday's market settlement. The U.S. Energy  Information Administration (EIA) will issue official numbers on  Wednesday. Brent crude rose 19 cents to $51.71 a barrel by 2:38 p.m. ET (1838 GMT), down from a session peak of  $52.09. U.S. West Texas Intermediate (WTI)  crude settled up 35 cents at $50.29, after earlier climbing  to $50.53.  The dollar was mixed  in choppy trading. A strong dollar makes crude and other  commodities denominated in the greenback less affordable to  holders of other currencies.Oil prices are up 13 percent from three weeks ago after  the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting  Countries proposed its first output cut or freeze in  eight years to rein in a global crude glut when it gathers on  Nov. 30 for its policy meeting.  The oil rally has, however, stalled at around $50 a barrel on  doubts whether OPEC will reach a deal that will satisfy all its  14 members. Most in the Saudi-led cartel need higher prices to  repair damage done to their economies after crude fell to almost  $26 a barrel this year from 2014 highs above $100.  "There is definite willingness and desire on behalf of most  countries to see prices go higher," Ian Taylor, chief executive  at Vitol, the world's top oil trader, said at an industry  conference in London. "Expectations are that we will get  something; whether it is quite good enough to get a substantial  rebalancing in the short term, I am not sure."  But some, like Iran, prefer not to cut output. Contributing to  OPEC's output has been Iran's rising exports — its October  crude exports are set to hold near five-year highs at about 2.56  million bpd, a source with knowledge of its preliminary tanker  schedule said.  Saudi crude exports in August fell to 7.305 million barrels per  day from 7.622 million bpd in July, data showed on Tuesday.  Some remain positive in their supply-demand outlook for oil.  Analysts at Bernstein Energy said global oil inventories rose by  just 17 million barrels to 5.618 billion barrels in the third  quarter, the smallest build since the fourth quarter of 2015.  Citi Bank, meanwhile, pointed to an overall drop in inventories  from the United States, Japan, Singapore and Europe of 35.9  million barrels.  The lower stocks, seasonal OPEC output falls irrespective of any  deal and high demand for heating fuels during the Northern  Hemisphere winter combine to suggest that the market will be  balanced at the end of this year, analysts at Wood Mackenzie have  forecast.  Traders are taking note, with money managers raising their  bullish bets on U.S. crude prices to the highest level since the  slump started in 2014.  JBC Energy, meanwhile, said that October tanker fixtures from the  Gulf have reached a five-year high, possibly reflecting concerns  that effective action by OPEC group could spur further price  increases later in the fourth quarter and that additional storage  buying might be best covered before November.  Others said oil prices could not sustain the constant rise of  recent weeks on OPEC pledges.  "We shorted WTI this morning at $51," said Phil Davis, trader at  PSW Investments in Woodland Park, New Jersey. "We think  ultimately that over the course of the next 30 days or so, it  will drop down to $37.50 or possibly lower."