  U.S. crude closed higher on Friday after Baker Hughes reported drillers increased the pace of rig  reductions in U.S. oilfields after two weeks of thin declines.  The number of rigs exploring for oil in U.S. acreage fell by 42,  the steepest drop in a month, bringing the total number to 760  rigs. U.S. crude settled  up 85 cents, or 1.7 percent, at $51.64 a  barrel. Brent crude rose about $1.25 to $59 a  barrel, on track for its third weekly gain in four.  Read MoreWhere Big Oil is cutting back  Oil was supported by an easing of concerns that the interim  accord over Iran's nuclear work will lead to a rapid rise in  Iranian oil supplies.  Evidence this week of ample global supplies, including the  biggest jump in U.S. inventories since 2001, a glut of unsold  Nigerian crude and Saudi Arabian output reaching a record high,  limited the rally.  "The latest agreement with Iran does not open the floodgates for  a significant return of Iranian oil on the market as many had  feared," said Harry Tchilinguirian, head of commodity markets  strategy and oil strategy at BNP Paribas.  World powers and Iran announced the interim accord last week. But  on Thursday, Iranian supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei  demanded all sanctions on Iran be lifted on the same day as any  final agreement, while the U.S. maintains that sanctions would be  lifted gradually. Read MoreOil could hit $70. Here's how:  Yamada  The price of Brent has halved from $115 hit last June, a drop  that deepened after OPEC in  November decided not to cut output, choosing to defend market  share instead. Top exporter Saudi Arabia was the driving force  behind the policy shift.  "Most of the fundamental factors are still pointing to lower  prices," said Eugen Weinberg, analyst at Commerzbank. "At the  moment, we have an oversupply of more than 1 million barrels per  day."  While some OPEC members are urging output cuts to boost prices,  Saudi Arabia has shown no sign of a rethink. Oil Minister Ali  al-Naimi told reporters on Tuesday that Riyadh had boosted its  crude production to 10.3 million bpd, the highest rate on record.  Further pressuring prices, a U.S. government report on Wednesday  said domestic crude stocks surged by nearly 11 million barrels  last week, the biggest gain in 14 years.  A glut of unsold Nigerian crude is building up too, traders say.  This is particularly bearish for Brent, because Nigerian crude is  priced against it.