U.S. oil prices closed sharply higher on Wednesday, having extended gains after the Federal Reserve left rates unchanged.WTI, also known as U.S. crude, settled at $38.46 a barrel, up 5.8 percent, or $2.12. The U.S. benchmark was up 3.9 percent higher 10 minutes before the statement's release. Brent futures also extended gains, trading at $40.26 a barrel, up 3.92 percent. Before the announcement, the international trademark was 2.89 percent higher, at $39.86.  Earlier, oil prices gained as U.S. stockpiles  grew by less than half the levels expected while major oil producers  readied to meet in Qatar next month on output freeze plan.The market is also the lookout for a Federal Reserve policy  statement due later in the day to glean direction on U.S. interest rates.  Crude inventories in the United States grew by 1.3 million  barrels in the week to March 11 to 523.2 million, hitting record  highs for a fifth straight week, data from the Energy Information  Administration (EIA) showed. Analysts polled by Reuters had  expected a 3.4 million-barrel gain.  "The data is moderately bullish with crude builds less than  expected, coupled with strong gasoline demand driven by lower  prices at the pump," said Chris Jarvis, analyst at Caprock Risk  Management in Frederick, Maryland.  Oil prices, already up about 3 percent in early trade, gained  further on the EIA data, before steadying ahead of the Fed  announcement due at 2 p.m. EDT.  Earlier in the day, Qatari oil minister Mohammed Bin Saleh  Al-Sada said producers from within and outside of the  Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries will meet in  Doha on April 17 to discuss output freeze plans. That helped  crude prices resume their rally after a 5 percent slide over the  past two sessions.  Around 15 OPEC and non-OPEC producers, accounting for about 73  percent of global oil output, support the output freeze  initiative, the Qatari minister said in a statement.  Later in the day, a Saudi oil source said top OPEC producer Saudi  Arabia fully supports an emergency meeting for oil producers in  the Qatari capital Doha in April."Since Russia and other countries agree on having an emergency meeting for oil producers in Doha on April 17,  Saudi Arabia fully supports this initiative," the source said.