  Oil prices were mixed on Tuesday as shares on Wall Street pared  losses and the euro recovered against the dollar after deadly blasts in  Brussels prompted an initial flight from risk. Brent crude  futures were up 26 cents at $41.80 a barrel, after hitting a session low of $40.97. U.S. May crude  futures settled at $41.45 a barrel, down 7 cents, or 0.1 percent, recovering  from an intraday low of $40.77. U.S. crude was down 1 percent at $41.12 in post settlement trading after API data showed a bigger-than-expected rise in inventory.  Stock prices on Wall Street were slightly positive, while the euro traded roughly flat,  rebounding from earlier weakness.  Oil prices have traded in concert with equities for most of this  year. A weakening dollar against the euro has also made  greenback-denominated oil more affordable for buyers using the  single currency.  "Oil is very much distracted by macro events today, gauging the  sentiment in broader markets and taking its lead from that," said  Matthew Smith, director of commodity research at the New  York-headquartered Clipper Data.  At least 30 people were killed in attacks on Brussels airport and  a rush-hour metro train in the Belgian capital, according to  public broadcaster VRT, triggering security alerts across Europe  and bringing some cross-border traffic to a halt.  Oil prices had also been pressured by Libya's decision not to  attend a gathering in Doha next month intended to help OPEC and  other major oil producers cut a deal to keep output at January's  levels.  Despite the latest price action, some traders and analysts  cautioned of possible profit-taking ahead after oil's huge rally  since February amid marginal improvements in supply-demand.  U.S. crude's new front-month contract hit a 2016 high of $41.90  earlier on Tuesday on reports of the first drawdown in  inventories at the Cushing, Oklahoma delivery hub for U.S.  futures since January.  With Brent also hitting the year's peak of $42.54 on Thursday,  the market has roughly rebounded 50 percent above where crude  prices were six weeks ago, when they traded at 12-year lows  before the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries  announced its output freeze plan  "I wouldn't be surprised to see some market participants ...  saying the price increase that we've had has been enough,"  Commerzbank strategist Eugen Weinberg said.  The market is awaiting a clearer picture on U.S. inventories when  the American Petroleum Institute, an industry group, issues its  inventory data for last week at 4:30 p.m. ET.  Analysts polled by Reuters expect the U.S. government to report  on Wednesday that domestic crude stockpiles last week rose 3  million barrels to a sixth straight week of record highs.