  Oil prices hit their lowest in over 11 years on Wednesday, as the  row between Saudi Arabia and Iran was seen making any cooperation  between major exporters to cut output even more unlikely, and  after a sharp rise in U.S. gasoline inventories.  Benchmark Brent crude futures were at  $34.26 a barrel — down 5.93 percent — and at their  lowest since early June 2004, having staged their largest one-day  drop in percentage terms in nearly five weeks. U.S. crude futures settled down  $2, or 5.56 percent, at $33.97 a barrel — its worst settle since Dec. 19, 2008 — after already slipping  79 cents the previous day.   Last week, the U.S. added 10.1 million barrels of gasoline, the  Energy Information Administration said. It added 900,000 the week  before. However, U.S. crude inventories dropped by 5.1 million  barrels last week.  "It's the biggest increase in gasoline supply since 1993," said  John Kilduff, founding partner at Again Capital. "Gasoline prices  are going to collapse"  RBOB gasoline futures fell about 7.5 percent.  Also, evidence of slowing economic growth in China and India has  fueled fears that even strong demand elsewhere may not be enough  to mop up the excess crude that has resulted from near-record  production over the last year.  The furor over Saudi Arabia's execution of a Shi'ite  cleric has stripped nearly 8 percent off the price of  oil in the last three trading days alone and has killed  speculation that OPEC members might agree on production cuts to  lift prices.  "There are rising stockpiles and the tension between Iran and  Saudi Arabia make any deal on production unlikely," said Michael  Hewson, head of strategy at CMC Markets.  Oil has slumped from above $115 in June 2014 as shale oil from  the United States has flooded the market, while falling prices  have prompted some producers to pump even harder to compensate  for lower revenues and to keep market share.  Adding to this oversupply, Iranian oil exports are widely  expected to increase in 2016 as Western sanctions against Tehran  for its alleged nuclear weapons program are likely to be lifted.  "Shale production and increasing capacity from countries like  Russia who need to protect revenue combined with expectations of further Iranian supply mean actual production as well as expectations of  future production are rising," Hewson said.Still, a senior Iranian oil official said the country could  moderate oil export increases once the sanctions are lifted to avoid  putting prices under further pressure.Also feeding into broad market weakness, a survey showed that  China's services sector expanded at its slowest pace in 17 months in  December, following on from weak factory data on Monday which also knocked markets globally.The People's Bank of China set a weaker midpoint for the yuan, prompting concerns that the economy of the world's largest energy consumer could be in worse shape than believed.In the United States, concerns over mounting oil stock levels persisted, with crude inventories likely to have risen by 439,000 barrels last week, according to a Reuters poll of eight analysts.— CNBC's Fred Imbert contributed to this report.