  Oil prices rose for a sixth straight day, with Brent hitting an  eight-week high on Thursday as the world's biggest producers  prepared to discuss a possible freeze in production levels. Brent  crude oil futures rose 88 cents, or 1.79 percent, to  $50.74 per barrel, near an intraday  high going back to June 23. West Texas  Intermediate (WTI) crude futures were up $1.43, or 3.06 percent, at $48.22 a barrel, also near a session peak going back to July 5.  Both benchmarks have risen more than 20 percent from a low in  early August on news the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting  Countries and other key exporters will probably revive  talks on freezing output levels when they meet in Algeria next  month.The rally has also been driven by short covering, as speculators  including hedge funds and other money managers have amassed  record short positions.  Many OPEC members have been hurt badly by a collapse in oil  prices over the last two years. While some Gulf oil exporters  have very low output costs, other producers such as Iran and  Venezuela need oil prices above $100 to balance their  budgets.  "With the lack of investment from outside oil companies, the  sovereigns will be the best hope to raise production next year in  a situation where it is likely that demand will exceed global  output and that in and of itself is a reason that a production  freeze at current levels still matters," said Phil Flynn, senior  energy analyst at Price Futures Group.  OPEC members will meet on the sidelines of the International  Energy Forum, which groups producers and consumers, in Algeria on  Sept. 26-28.  But freezing production at current levels might not help bolster  prices, many analysts say, particularly since Saudi Arabia  signaled that it could boost crude oil supplies in August to a  new record, even as it prepares to discuss output levels with  other producers.  "The latest news from Saudi Arabia is not price supportive at  all," Carsten Fritsch, senior oil and commodities analyst at  Germany's Commerzbank, said, "This is a double whammy for the oil  market. A test of the lows of early August is quite possible."  Analysts at Citi also warned of the risks of a price rally based  largely on potential future talks on freezing crude output levels  given that similar meetings earlier this year failed to produce  any such agreement.  "OPEC cooperation hopes should be treated with caution, as this  is shaky ground to base a bull rally on," the bank said.  The strength of WTI on Thursday was also a result of a flood of  new orders to ship U.S. crude to Europe to take advantage of  arbitrage opportunities resulting from a wide spread between the  U.S. and European benchmarks.