  Oil prices closed at their highest level since December on  Tuesday, driven by a weak dollar, and expectations that U.S.  crude supplies could have fallen again last week for a fifth  straight week. U.S.  crude settled up $1.06, or 1.76 percent, at $61.26 a  barrel—the highest since Dec. 9. Brent crude for July was up 70  cents at $65.50 a barrel.  The likelihood of high global supplies from OPEC's lack of will  to cut output when it meets this week remained a factor for the  market, but did not immediately impact prices.  Ministers from the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries,  responsible for more than a third of the world's crude output,  meet in Vienna on Friday to decide on production policy for the  next six months. Read MoreOil chart shows bear  market set to resume  The group has been producing up to 2 million barrels per day more  than needed this year, although analysts expect the market to  eventually balance from higher demand.  While a decision by OPEC not to cut is principally bearish for  oil, the market was propped up on Tuesday by a weaker dollar that made crude  prices, denominated in the greenback, more affordable to holders  of the euro and other currencies. The euro was up its most against the dollar  since mid-March on bets that Greece would reach a deal with its  creditors.  Prices were also underpinned by expectations the U.S. government  will announce on Wednesday a fifth straight weekly draw in crude  stocks. A Reuters poll forecast that crude stocks fell 2 million  barrels last week ahead of estimates at 4:30 p.m. (2030 GMT) from  industry group American Petroleum Institute.  "It's a dollar driven day, with as much expectations riding on a  continued draw in crude stocks," said Gene McGillian, analyst at  Tradition Energy in Stamford, Connecticut. Read MoreEnergy CEOs give their  outlook for rest of the year  Ali al-Naimim, oil minister of Saudi Arabia, OPEC's most  influential member, expects global oil demand to increase in the  second half and supply to decrease, a sign the kingdom's strategy  of defending market share was working.  Several banks and analysts, including Morgan Stanley, have  suggested OPEC could raise its production target, acknowledging  that it has been producing more than planned over the last few  months. But most expect no change.  "The gulf between the member countries remains extremely wide,  and without a contribution from everyone ... Saudi Arabia will  not reduce production," said Amrita Sen, chief oil analyst at  Energy Aspects.