 Crude prices came under renewed selling pressure Monday  after OPEC said it  would not cut oil output despite fears of a glut, and a UAE  official opposed holding an emergency meeting of the producer  group to fix prices.U.S. crude settled down  $1.90 at $55.91 per barrel, the lowest settlement since May  2009. The contract slide further in after-hours trading.   was down 65  cents at $61.20. It had risen as much as $1.40 earlier to $63.25  after a session low at $60.28, a bottom since July 2009.  "You have all these OPEC officials reiterating they are not going  to cut production, so you are seeing selling into the rallies,"  said Phil Flynn, analyst at Price Futures Group in Chicago.  Abdullah al-Badri, secretary-general of the Organization of the  Petroleum Exporting Countries, said the group could ride out an  oil price slump since June of nearly 50 percent without amending  production. Influenced by top exporter Saudi Arabia, OPEC decided  last month that cutting output meant losing its market share. Read MoreOil drop = instability: Top fund  manager  Suhail Bin Mohammed al-Mazroui, oil minister of the United Arab  Emirates, later said there was no need for an emergency OPEC  meeting to help support prices.  Venezuela and Algeria, which need higher oil prices for their  economies, were among OPEC members that had hinted at an  emergency meeting after last month's Vienna summit that did not  agree on output cuts. OPEC's next meeting is in June 2015.  Oil was up initially early on Monday on news that Libya's two  biggest oil ports had shut due to fighting between armed factions  allied to the country's two rival governments. Read MoreOPEC's Badri: Oil's price slide beyond  fundamentals  Loading delays for January cargoes of North Sea Forties crude due  to lower-than-expected output had also supported the market. The  North Sea Forties sets prices for Brent. Read MoreWhen will the hideous downturn for oil  be over?  The disparity in their drop extended Brent's premium versus U.S.  crude to a near one month-high of almost $5.  Traders said Brent's losses were capped by the North Sea Forties  and Libyan situations. The spread between its front-month January  and nearby February also narrowed, to 16 cents a barrel from  Friday's 30 cents.  U.S. crude sold off more sharply on concerns of another sharply  weekly build in the United States.