  Oil prices dipped on Thursday after a surprise increase in U.S.  inventories reversed an advance in prices that had pushed global  crude benchmarks to their highest levels since July last year. U.S. light crude settled down 29 cents at $53.77,  while North Sea Brent crude was down 8 cents at  $56.14 a barrel by 2:34 p.m. ET (1934 GMT)  Traded volumes were thin with many investors away for year-end  holidays, although the expiry of the front-month February ICE  Brent contract on Thursday could generate some activity. U.S.  distillate and gasoline futures expire on Friday, which could add  to price swings, analysts noted.  "The petroleum markets are mixed in light-volume trade amid a  general wait for fresh fundamental news that might push prices  out of their established ranges," Tim Evans, an energy futures  specialist at Citi Futures, said in a note.  Both crude oil benchmarks have made big gains this month since  OPEC and other producers agreed to curb production in an attempt  to balance an oversupplied fuel market.   "The market is in good shape although it might fail to make  significant advances this year," said analyst Tamas Varga at  London brokerage PVM Oil Associates. "If that is the case the  uptrend should continue in early January."   "Either way, the odds are still on higher numbers." Crude stocks  rose by 614,000 barrels in the week to Dec. 23, as refineries cut  output crude imports fell, the Energy Information Administration  reported.Analysts polled by Reuters before the report had forecast  on average that inventories would decline by 2.1 million barrels.  In Cushing, Oklahoma, the delivery point for U.S. crude's benchmark West Texas Intermediate contract, inventories rose by 172,000 barrels, the  EIA said.  Gasoline stocks fell by 1.6 million barrels, compared with  analysts' expectations in a Reuters poll for a 1.3 million-barrel  gain.  Distillate stockpiles, which include diesel and heating oil, fell  by 1.9 million barrels, versus expectations for a 1.8  million-barrel increase, the EIA data showed.  A committee of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting  Countries and non-OPEC producers will meet in Vienna on  Jan. 21-22 to discuss compliance with the production agreement,  Kuwaiti oil minister Essam Al-Marzouq told state news agency  KUNA.  "Brent will be ... positively impacted by the OPEC and non-OPEC  cuts should the agreed reductions be largely adhered to over the  next six months," said Philips Futures' investment analyst  Jonathan Chan.— CNBC's Tom DiChristopher contributed to this report.