  U.S. oil prices fell on Monday as production from the  Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries neared all-time  peaks and record speculative buying in global benchmark Brent  sparked profit-taking on last month's outsized rally.  OPEC's crude production climbed in April to 32.64 million barrels  per day, close to the highest in recent history, a Reuters survey  showed.  Iraq's April exports from southern fields increased, as did  seaborne exports from Russia, the biggest exporter outside OPEC.  Traders also cited a bearish stockpile rise of 821,969 barrels at  the Cushing, Oklahoma delivery point for U.S. West Texas  Intermediate (WTI)crude futures during the week to April 29.  Brent crude rose 21.5 percent in April, its largest monthly gain  in seven years. Speculator bets on higher Brent prices reached  all-time peaks last week, while bullish bets on WTI futures and  options rose to 10-month highs, feeding investor views prices may  have risen too far, too fast.  "While such huge speculative length in the crude benchmarks isn't  capable of independently reversing the strong up trend of recent  months, it will certainly act to accentuate price declines," said  Jim Ritterbusch of Chicago-based oil markets consultancy  Ritterbusch & Associates. Brent was  trading down $1.55, or 3.3 percent, at $45.81 per barrel. U.S.  crude settled 2.48 percent lower, or $1.14, $44.78.  Monday's volume in Brent was visibly lower with the market in  London closed for the May Day holiday. The premium until Friday  in Brent's front-month versus second-month,  known as "backwardation," also ended, with a discount, or  "contango," now in its place.  "We would not be surprised to see the rally pause for breath soon  and feel that the risks currently lie more to the downside,"  London-based Capital Economics said in note.  "We are leaving our end-2016 forecasts (for both Brent and WTI)  at $45 per barrel, slightly below today's levels."A weaker dollar which makes it cheaper for countries using  other currencies to import dollar-traded fuel, kept further oil  price losses at bay.  The chief of the International Energy Agency (IEA) said oil  prices may have bottomed out if no major global economic issues  emerge.  "In a normal economic environment, we will see the price  direction is rather upwards than downwards," IEA Executive  Director Fatih Birol said on Sunday during a G7 meeting of energy  ministers in Japan.  Non-OPEC output is set to mark its biggest decline in around 20  years, Birol said.  At the G7 meeting, U.S. Energy Secretary Ernest Moniz said U.S.  production would likely fall by 600,000 bpd this year from 2015,  when output peaked at around 9.6 million bpd.  Last week, Texas-based Ultra Petroleum Corp, a victim of low oil  and gas prices, filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection.  The IEA's Birol also said a drawdown in global stockpiles should  start toward the end of the year, though some U.S. shale  producers are using the price rally to hedge their production.