  Oil prices hit one-month highs on Monday, gaining about 10.8 percent  in a three-day rally as speculation intensified over potential  producer action to support prices amid a crude glut.  Data from market intelligence firm Genscape estimating a draw of  more than 350,000 barrels at the Cushing, Oklahoma delivery point  for U.S. crude futures last week added to the bullish sentiment,  said traders who saw the data. Brent  crude was up $1.37, or 2.92 percent, at $48.33 per barrel. Brent has gained about 10 percent  cumulatively in the past three sessions, its most in such a  stretch since May. Since the start of August, it is up about 13 percent. U.S. West Texas  Intermediate (WTI) crude rose $1.25, or 2.81 percent, to  $45.74 a barrel, after rallying earlier to $45.75, a peak since  July 18. WTI has gained about 10 percent on the month.  Members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries  are to meet on the sidelines of the International Energy Forum,  which groups producers and consumers, in Algeria from Sept.  26-28.  Russian Energy Minister Alexander Novak bolstered hopes on Monday  that oil producing nations could take action to stabilise prices,  telling a Saudi newspaper that his country was consulting with  Saudi Arabia and other producers to achieve market stability.  "With Russia joining the chorus, an array of bullish oil ETFs saw  a sizeable influx of capital that lifted crude values by more  than $5 a barrel off recent lows," said Jim Ritterbusch of  Chicago-based oil markets consultancy Ritterbusch &  Associates.  "While we see very little possibility of an actualization of  curtailed OPEC output, there will likely be enough chatter during  the next five to six weeks to deter selling in allowing WTI to  gravitate at around the $45 area, at least through the second  half of this month," he added.  But other analysts were sceptical that the rally would continue.  "In our view a renewed price correction cannot be ruled out if  market participants start focusing on the supply side again, for  the latest drilling activity figures in the U.S. cast doubts that  the oversupply is really being eroded," Commerzbank analyst  Carsten Fritsch said in a note. Baker  Hughes data released on Friday showed the number of rigs  operating in the U.S. rose by 15 last week to 396.  While that is far below the 1,600 rigs that were in operation in  2014 before the price rout, the rig count has steadily risen from  a low of just 316 in late May as U.S. producers adjusted to lower  prices.Doubts also abounded over the chances of OPEC putting aside a market  share battle in order to prop up prices. Iran is edging out  Russia in a fight to supply crude oil to Poland, while its crude  exports to South Korea jumped nearly four fold in July from the  previous year.  "The (OPEC) meeting is unlikely to yield anything because OPEC  are caught in a squeeze," David Hufton of oil brokers PVM wrote  on Monday. "On the supply side it is their own increase in  production that is prolonging the price depression but if they  freeze or restrain production to lift prices they will stimulate  competing non-OPEC supply and lose market share."  On the demand side, the world's three biggest economies — the  United States, China and Japan — all published downbeat economic  data between Friday and Monday.  The countries are also among three of the world's five biggest  crude consumers and traders said slower economic growth in those  countries could start weighing on crude markets.