U.S. crude prices closed higher after a choppy trading session on Wednesday as data showing record U.S. crude  stocks was offset by evidence that production in an oversupplied market  continues to decline.   The Energy Information Administration reported crude inventories  rose by 10.4 million barrels to a total of 518 million barrels.  The build was almost three times more than the 3.6 million-barrel  increase expected by analysts.  The American Petroleum Institute (API) said on Tuesday U.S. crude  inventories jumped by 9.9 million barrels last week, much more  than the 3.6-million-barrel increase analysts had forecast.  But the drop in production to levels not seen since late 2014  gave bulls hope, Dow Jones reported.  EIA reported U.S. oil production fell last week by about 25,000  barrels per day (bpd) to just over 9 million bpd, down from a  peak of 9.6 million bpd in April. More reliable monthly figures  from EIA put U.S. crude production at 9.2 million bpd in  December. U.S. crude, also known as WTI, settled at $34.66 a barrel, up 26 cents, or 0.76 percent, after hitting a  session peak of $35.17, its highest level since early  January. WTI also posted its best settlement since Jan. 5.  Global benchmark Brent crude gained 13 cents to $36.94 a barrel,  having earlier spiked to $37.40, the highest in almost two  months.   Brent has risen 35 percent from a 12-year low of $27.10 hit on  Jan. 20, adding to expectations that further drops may not be on  the cards. An analyst at the International Energy Agency said on  Tuesday prices appeared to have bottomed.   "Today's EIA data will do very little to help oil's recent  bounce," said Chris Jarvis, analyst at Caprock Risk Management in  Frederick, Maryland. "In short, it's difficult to make a bullish case. Signs that the  glut in oil and reversal of the building trend will subside any  time soon seems distant."  Crude has collapsed from more than $100 in mid-2014, pressured by  excess supply and a decision by the Organization of the Petroleum  Exporting Countries to abandon its traditional role of cutting  production by itself to boost prices.   After more than a year of failing to agree any  steps, OPEC and outside producers have stepped up  diplomatic activity to fix the supply glut. Saudi Arabia, Qatar,  Venezuela and non-OPEC producer Russia said on Feb. 16 they would  freeze output.   On Wednesday, Venezuela's Oil Minister Eulogio Del Pino said more  than 15 countries will attend an upcoming oil meeting to discuss  an output freeze plan and  possible further actions, state  oil company PDVSA said in a statement.  In an early sign that Moscow will stick to the plan, Russia  reported on Wednesday its oil output was little changed in  February.   Russia's Rosneft, the world's biggest listed oil producer by  volume, is floating the idea of a domestic production cut to  balance the global market and as the firm faces a natural decline  this year, two industry sources said.  Saudi Arabia has yet to report its production, but a Reuters  survey this week found no sign of an increase in February.       "Although the market had hoped that some of these producers would  immediately cut oil production, we still see this agreement as a  strong message," ABN Amro said in a report.   "By announcing a production freeze, the global oil coalition has  set a floor under oil prices." 