  Oil fell over 2 percent on Friday, extending the week's loss  to the largest in eight months, pressured by swelling storage of  crude on both land and sea.  Prices slipped slightly after Baker Hughes reported the number of  oil rigs operating in the United States rose for the first time  in 11 weeks.  The weekly count ticked up by 2 rigs to a total of 574, compared  with 1,578 at this time last year.  Read MoreRecord oil stockpiles  an 'unprecedented buffer': IEA  Oil prices have fallen in seven of the last eight sessions, with  losses accelerating after U.S. government data on Thursday  affirmed a seventh weekly rise in U.S. crude inventories that  took stockpiles near April's record highs.  The International Energy Agency (IEA) added to the bearish  sentiment on Friday, saying there was a record 3 billion barrels  of crude and oil products in tanks worldwide.  U.S. crude's spot contract for December was at its widest  discount in nearly three months to crude slated for delivery in a  year. The global glut has prompted traders to store more oil with  the hope of selling later at higher prices.  The entire strip of futures prices for the next six months has  weakened over the past four weeks as focus shifted back from  strong oil demand toward oversupply.  Options trading has spiked with a soaring number of options taken  to sell crude if prices fall to $40 or even $25. Read MoreOil price collapsing,  could set new low  "The evolving bearish global balances that we alluded to all year  are acquiring increased transparency," said Jim Ritterbusch of  Chicago-based oil consultancy Ritterbusch & Associates. closed $1.01 lower, or 2.42 percent, at $40.74 a barrel. It fell about 8 percent on the week,  its most since March. was off 46 cents, or 1.04 percent, at $43.60 a barrel. Its downside was limited by the impending expiry of its front month  December contract at Friday's settlement. For the week, Brent was  down nearly 8 percent, also its most since March.  Oil was caught in a larger commodities selloff on Friday. The  Thomson Reuters/Core Commodity CRB Index, a global benchmark, was  near its lowest since 2002. Read More OPEC holds  fire on forecasts as meeting looms  An estimated crude oversupply of between 0.7 million and 2.5  million barrels per day has resulted in prices dropping almost  two thirds since June 2014.  The IEA said a mild 2016 winter could cause the overhang to rise  in coming months.  Tens of millions of barrels are sitting on tankers at sea,  looking for buyers and threatening logistical paralysis.— CNBC's Tom DiChristopher contributed to this report.