U.S. oil prices closed mildly lower on Thursday in choppy trade as the  market processed a mixed report from the International Energy  Agency (IEA) and awaited an upcoming meeting of major producers. Brent crude  futures were down 39 cents at $43.79 a barrel by 2:32 p.m. ET. U.S. crude settled at $41.50 a barrel, down 26 cents, or 0.62 percent.  Activity in the market has been muted with no clear players,  traders said, due to the uncertainty ahead of a keenly  anticipated meeting on Sunday in Doha, Qatar of the  world's biggest oil exporters, including Saudi Arabia and Russia.  They are set to finalize a deal reached in February to freeze oil  output at January levels, aiming to bolster oil prices.  "No real axe to grind today. I do believe tomorrow can be busy  ahead of the weekend," one trader said.  The IEA, which coordinates the energy policies of industrialized  nations, trimmed its estimate for 2016 global demand growth from  last month to 1.16 million barrels per day (bpd), but said a  much-anticipated slide in production in the United States was  gathering pace.  "If there is to be a production freeze, rather than a cut, the  impact on physical oil supplies will be limited," the IEA said in  its monthly report.  Many analysts concur and think traders could be disappointed  after the meeting.  "I think the market is really looking ahead to Doha," said  Michael Tran, director of energy strategy at RBC Capital Markets  in New York.  "An agreement to freeze production does little to change physical  balances, but constructive rhetoric could serve as a sentiment  changer at a minimum, helping to legitimize the current rally and  have the market hold the $40 a barrel level as the new  psychological floor."  Crude found some support after data showed consumer prices are  rising less than expected, pushing the dollar lower. A weaker  dollar supports oil, making it more affordable to holders of  other currencies.  In the previous session, oil fell after Russian oil minister  Alexander Novak told a closed-door briefing of energy analysts in  Moscow that a deal in Doha would be loosely framed with few  detailed commitments.  "The agreement will not be very rigidly formulated, it is more of  a gentlemen's agreement," one of those present said, paraphrasing  Novak's words at the briefing.  "There is no plan to sign binding documents," another person at  the briefing said.