  Oil prices jumped more than 3 percent on Monday amid renewed  speculation that OPEC would try to restrain output, easing  oversupply worries that had sent the market to three-month lows  last week. U.S. West Texas  Intermediate (WTI) crude futures settled 2.92 percent  higher, or $1.22, at $43.02 a barrel.  International Brent crude futures were trading at  $45.33 a barrel, up $1.06. or 2.39 percent.  The rise came on the back of a Wall Street  Journal report late last week that OPEC countries such  as Venezuela, Ecuador and Kuwait want to take another stab at  cooperation between the 14-nation Organization of the Petroleum Exporting  Countries and non-members such as Russia.  The last such initiative failed in April after Saudi Arabia  backed out of talks in Doha, Qatar, citing Iran's refusal to join  in a so-called production freeze.  Qatar's energy minister and OPEC president Mohammad bin Saleh  al-Sada said in a statement the producer group was in "constant  deliberations with all member states on ways and means to help  restore stability and order to the oil market."  The statement added that an informal meeting of OPEC member  countries was scheduled to take place on the sidelines of the  International Energy Forum, which groups producers and consumers,  in Algeria from Sept. 26-28.  Russia, the world's biggest oil producer, poured cold water on  Monday on a new production freeze plan.  "The position of Russia is that the prerequisites for this have  not yet come to pass, considering that prices are still at a more  or less normal level," Energy Minister Alexander Novak, said,  adding that he remained open to negotiations.  Jim Ritterbusch of Chicago-based oil markets consultancy  Ritterbusch & Associates, said. "OPEC appears to be concerned about  the apparent bottoming in U.S. oil rig counts that have been  lifted to highest levels since March," said   "Add in the possibility that global oil demand growth may be  slowing and it would appear that OPEC calls for restraint would  be inevitable."  A glut of crude and refined products loomed over the  market.  The U.S. oil rig count rose last week for a sixth week in a row.  In China, fuel exports rose over 50 percent from a year earlier  to a monthly record 4.57 million tons, adding to a global  glut.  The market, however, shrugged off a Genscape report of a build of  more than 307,000 barrels at the Cushing, Oklahoma delivery hub  for U.S. crude futures in the week to Aug. 5, cited by traders. A  Cushing inventory rise of over 200,000 barrels is typically  bearish for crude.  Hedge funds cut their bullish exposure to Brent to the smallest  since January while paring positive bets on WTI to the least  since February.  The combination of factors led analysts to warn that the world  had not yet dealt with the overhang of physical oil, which could  drag prices lower again before any sustained recovery.  "The proper signals are not yet being sent to fix the product  market," Morgan Stanley said in a note, noting that refined  products also needed to draw down a large excess.  "In other words, physical oil markets likely need to get worse  before they get better."