  Oil prices closed off their session lows on Wednesday after OPEC sources  said the group was likely to consider a new output ceiling at its  forthcoming meeting, although many in the market still appeared  skeptical about such a deal. Brent crude  futures were down 11 cents at $49.79 per barrel, after striking an intraday low at  $48.65.  U.S. crude  futures settled 0.18 percent lower, or 9 cents, at $49.01 a barrel, after plumbing to  $47.75 earlier.  Reuters cited four OPEC sources as saying the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting  Countries was likely to consider a production cap at its  Thursday meeting.  An earlier report on Wednesday said Gulf OPEC members, including  Saudi Arabia, were considering reviving the idea of coordinated  oil output action by major producers, a senior OPEC source said.  Market participants have doubted such a deal was likely. Iran, a  key OPEC member, has said it was determined to restore its crude  exports to pre-sanction levels. Analysts had said the meeting on  Thursday was likely focus on defending market share of individual  OPEC members.  Saudi Arabia effectively scuppered plans for a global production  freeze — aimed at stabilizing oil markets — in April.  It said then that it would join the deal, which would also have  involved non-OPEC member Russia, only if Iran agreed to freeze  output.  Oil prices eased earlier on concern among traders that Middle  East members of OPEC could continue to raise output.   "The OPEC meeting in Vienna on Thursday is unlikely to see a  change in the policy of maintaining market share," said Oxford  Economics lead economist Patrick Dennis, prior to the report that output cuts could be on the table.  "Saudi Arabia can claim its policy has been successful with oil  prices recovering at the same time as non-OPEC oil production has  fallen back, leading to a more rapid global market rebalancing  than expected."  Many Middle East oil producers have ramped up deliveries to Asia  in an aggressive fight for market share.   But on the demand side, Morgan Stanley said it was worried about  China.   "Our economists worry that April data showed China may be slowing  ... The oil demand data from China should reinforce those  concerns," the bank said.   China's official factory activity gauge expanded only marginally  in May, data showed on Wednesday, while a private survey showed  conditions deteriorated for a fifteenth straight month.   Chinese port congestion and the impending refinery maintenance  season will also weigh on crude imports over the next few months,  analysts at BMI Research said.   A Reuters poll on Tuesday showed that most traders expect only  limited potential for further price gains this year as global  oversupply persists.  A rise of more than 20 percent, or almost $10 per barrel, since  early April, has been powered largely by supply disruptions,  especially in Africa and Canada, and as overall demand remains  strong despite China's slowing economy.— CNBC's Tom DiChristopher contributed to this story.