  U.S. oil prices fell more than 2 percent Tuesday, retreating swiftly from the year's highs hit last week,  on renewed glut worries, a rebounding dollar and weaker global  equities.  Iraq said its oil shipments from southern fields averaged 3.364  million barrels per day (bpd) in April, up from 3.286 million in  March.  Production from top exporter Saudi Arabia was 10.15 million bpd  in April, but sources said it may return to near-records of 10.5  million bpd soon.  Iran is also raising output following an end to sanctions in  January, having increased its exports to almost 2 million bpd  from a little over 1 million bpd at the start of the year.  Daily supply of North Sea Brent crude oil, which contributes to  the futures benchmark, will rise in June to its highest in four  months, up 17 percent from May, according to monthly loading  programs provided by trading sources.  "There are enough supply stories out there to slow or temper any  gains," Energy Aspects analyst Richard Mallinson said, though he  added that lower supply from the United States should support  prices in the longer term. Brent crude  futures were down 79 cents, or 1.7 percent, at $45.02. U.S. crude  futures were settled 2.5 percent lower, or $1.13, at $43.65 a barrel, falling for a third-straight day.  Brent and WTI both lost about 3 percent each in Monday's trade as  production from the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries neared  all-time peaks and record speculative buying in global benchmark  Brent sparked profit-taking on last month's over 21 percent rally  to 2016 highs at $48.50.  The dollar index  rose for the first time since April 22, making commodities  denominated in the greenback, including crude oil, less  attractive to holders of the euro and other currencies.Global stock markets fell, stoked by a 14th straight month of  decline in Chinese factory activity in April. British  manufacturing output dropped to a three-year low and euro zone  growth was forecast to be slower than previously expected this  year.  "The latest weakness in oil is also likely the result of higher  U.S. crude build expectations and the technical stall identified  for prices," said David Thompson of Washington-based  commodities-specialized broker Powerhouse.  U.S. crude inventories were expected to have risen 1.4 million  barrels last week, adding to record highs, a Reuters poll of  analysts concluded.  On the technical front, Brent prices could drop further before  resuming April's upward trend, said Fawad Razaqzada, analyst at  London's City Index. He sees support at $44.50, $42.50 and finally  $41 before what could be regarded "the end of the current bullish  trend."