 World oil prices slid another 4 percent to new five-year  lows on Monday, as expectations of a deeper slump next year and a  prediction by a core OPEC member that crude will remain at $65 for several months  triggered another round of selling. U.S. crude oil  settled 4.2 percent lower at $63.05 per barrel, at a  new five-year low, its third worst drop of of  the year. Brent  crude for January fell was last down  4 percent at $66 a barrel, after slipping to a session low of  $65.93—its lowest since October 2009. Read MoreOil stocks slump as crude falls to multiyear low  The chief executive of Kuwait's national oil company said oil  prices were likely to remain around $65 a barrel for the next six  to seven months, the latest indication that Gulf producers were  content to ride out the latest rout.  The pessimistic outlook deepened the decline in a market that  many traders now see as having little chance of rebounding.  "When these things go lower, they tend to go much farther than  people anticipated," said Tariq Zahir at Tyche Capital. "I  definitely think we're going to keep heading lower, everyone is  trying to pick a bottom." Read MoreOil tumbles after Morgan Stanley cuts  forecasts   Late on Friday, Morgan Stanley set a new bar for bearishness on  Wall Street, slashing its average 2015 Brent base-case outlook by  $28 to $70 per barrel and warning that prices could drop as low  as $43 a barrel next year.  "Without OPEC intervention, markets risk becoming unbalanced,  with peak oversupply likely in the second quarter of 2015,"  Morgan Stanley analyst Adam Longson said.  Thus far, there appears little sign of intervention, even after  oil prices dropped 15 percent, or nearly $12 a barrel, since the  Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries opted not to  cut production at its Nov. 27 meeting. Read MoreFuel is cheaper—so let's hike gas  tax: Former governor  Top exporter Saudi Arabia has resisted calls from poorer members  to curb output and shore up prices which have slumped more than  40 percent since June.  Libya's state oil company said on Sunday the country was  producing 800,000 barrels a day, though its El Sharara oilfield  was closed due to a pipeline blockade.  It is unclear how soon the price slump will slow the U.S. shale  boom. While the number of onshore rigs drilling for crude oil  remains relatively high, companies are making deeper cuts to  spending for next year. On Monday, Conoco said it would slash  spending by 20 percent, or $3 billion, the biggest reduction thus  far announced by U.S. drillers.