  Oil prices fell on Tuesday, reflecting growing concerns that a  two-month rally may be fading, as supply looked set to keep  rising and there appeared to be little immediate prospect of  demand keeping pace.Brent crude  futures fell $1.04, or 2.58 percent, to $39.26 a  barrel. U.S.  crude settled $1.11 lower, at $38.28 a barrel, its lowest settlement since March 15.  Earlier, prices briefly pared losses after Federal Reserve Chair Janet  Yellen delivered remarks on the U.S. economy and monetary  policy.   Yellen, speaking to Economic Club of New York, noted in prepared  remarks that recent readings on the strength of the U.S. economy  since the beginning of the year have been mixed.  In fact, Yellen said that only gradual increases in the federal  funds rate are likely to be warranted in coming years, and global  developments have increased the risks associated with the Fed's  economic outlook.  The oil price has risen more than 45 percent since mid-February  ahead of a meeting next month of the world's major producers to  discuss an output freeze. But there is growing skepticism about  the outcome of the meeting.  "Verbal intervention, which has obviously helped the market  greatly over the past two months, combined with a production  slowdown in the U.S., has probably taken (oil) as far as it can.  Now the market really wants to see some action," Saxo Bank senior  manager Ole Hansen said.  "We're seeing more and more commentators raise the flag and  saying 'have we seen too much, too soon?' in terms of the rally  across the sector."OPEC and  other major suppliers, including Russia, are to meet on April 17  in Doha to discuss an output freeze aimed at bolstering prices.      The oil price touched session lows earlier after a source  familiar with Iranian thinking said Iran would attend the  meeting, but this did not mean it would take part in negotiations  over production freezes.  Kuwait said on Tuesday it had agreed with Saudi Arabia to resume  production at the jointly operated Khafji field, which shut in  October 2014 for environmental reasons, having been producing  between 280,000 and 300,000 barrels per day.  With ballooning global inventories, signs some OPEC members are  losing market share, plus little evidence of a strong pick-up in  demand, analysts said oil is likely to trade in a range.  "There is a rebalancing on the way, but we are still running a  surplus and stocks are building up as far as we can see," SEB  commodities analyst Bjarne Schieldrop said.  "There is a clear risk for a pull-back in Brent crude oil with a  return to deeper contango again. Long positioning in Brent is at  record highs and vulnerable for a bearish repositioning."  Data on Monday from the InterContinental Exchange showed  speculators hold the largest net long position in Brent futures  on record.  U.S. commercial crude stockpiles were expected to have reached  record highs for a seventh straight week, while refined product  inventories likely fell, a Reuters survey showed late on Monday. — CNBC's Tom DiChristopher and Everett Rosenfeld contributed to this  story.