 U.S.  sovereign bond prices rose on  Thursday, as U.S. stocks turned lower amid a drop in the financials.  U.S. Treasury yields across the board fell, with the  benchmark 10-year note yielding 1.5591 percent, having  closed the previous session at 1.567 percent. Bond yields move inversely to prices.   German bunds — viewed as a "safe-haven" asset comparable to  U.S. debt — U.K. Gilts, French OATs and Japanese  bonds fell as well.   The 14-country OPEC oil cartel agreed to seek a cut in crude  production when they meet formally in November — paving the  way for the first cut in oil supply since 2008. Crude oil  futures rose nearly 6 percent on Wednesday on news of the  deal, but pared some gains on Thursday as investors grew  skeptical about the details of the agreement and how it will be  enforced.  "There are the usual unanswered questions about implementation,  not least regarding how the output cuts will be divvied up among  members; how Iran, Nigeria and Libya might be given greater  leeway to increase production without jeopardizing the deal as a  whole; and how non-members such as Russia, Mexico, North American  shale producers and others will respond," Emily Nicol, economist  at Daiwa Capital Markets, said in a note on Thursday.   Data-wise, the third read on second-quarter GDP beat estimates,  while weekly jobless claims rose less than expected. Pending home  sales for August fell 2.4 percent.  No U.S. Treasury auctions are schedule for Thursday, but the  offering amount for sales of 13-week and 26-week bills on  Monday will be announced.    U.S. Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen will speak in Kansas City  at 4 p.m. ET at a forum on banking and the economy. Before that,  Fed Governor Jerome Powell said he supported the current rate  hike path and that the Fed can remain patient in normalizing  rates.  Earlier, Kansas City Fed President Esther George told CNBC the  most recent economic data shows continuing to move forward.  Plus, the U.S. Presidential race will be in focus, following  media speculation that a company owned by Republican candidate,  Donald Trump, violated the Cuban trade embargo in the 1990s. Follow CNBC International on Twitter and Facebook.