Vattenfall, Wallenstam put down 300-MW wind project off Sweden 
22102019

0943
WindSwedish state-owned utility Vattenfall AB and its partner Wallenstam have scrapped plans to jointly build a 300-MW offshore wind park in Swedish waters after the country's Armed Forces turned down a revised plan for it.Vattenfall announced the decision on Monday, explaining that the Swedish Armed Forces' reason for not approving the project was its proximity to a military training area. The two partners intended to install the so-called Taggen wind park in Hano Bay, about 12km (7.5 miles) off Solvesborg, southern Sweden, using 40 turbines with heights of 220 metres (722 ft).
 
While Taggen Vindpark AB obtained a permit for the project from Sweden's Land and Environmental Court back in 2012, the partners applied to change the original 83-turbine application to include higher and more powerful machines, in line with the new technological developments. The location of the turbines was restricted only to Solvesborg municipality, instead of Solvesborg and Kristianstad municipalities.
 
The Armed Forces, however, did not greenlight the change and also denied the project as a whole, Vattenfall said. The offshore wind farm was expected to generate electricity for about 200,000 households per year.
Source: renewablesnow.com
Vattenfall announced the decision on Monday, explaining that the Swedish Armed Forces' reason for not approving the project was its proximity to a military training area. The two partners intended to install the so-called Taggen wind park in Hano Bay, about 12km (7.5 miles) off Solvesborg, southern Sweden, using 40 turbines with heights of 220 metres (722 ft). While Taggen Vindpark AB obtained a permit for the project from Sweden's Land and Environmental Court back in 2012, the partners applied to change the original 83-turbine application to include higher and more powerful machines, in line with the new technological developments. The location of the turbines was restricted only to Solvesborg municipality, instead of Solvesborg and Kristianstad municipalities. The Armed Forces, however, did not greenlight the change and also denied the project as a whole, Vattenfall said. The offshore wind farm was expected to generate electricity for about 200,000 households per year.Source: renewablesnow.com