  For Saudi Arabia, its decision  last week not to cut oil  production seems to have been an attempt to protect market  share. But for Venezuela, that  decision may mean "game over" for the economy.  Oil accounts for 95 percent of Venezuela's export earnings,and  combined with gas, it's 25 percent of the country's gross  domestic product. As the price of oil hits a four-year low at $70  per barrel, the OPEC nation's oil-dependent economy is set to  implode, experts say, bringing deeper political instability and  chaos to the world's 10th-largest oil exporter.Anti-government protests flared earlier this year as  Venezuelans started to feel the effects of the economy's  staggering 60 percent inflation and currency  controls that have generated scarcity of basic needs such as  toilet paper and toothpaste.  Read MoreCreating inflation is easy. Just ask  Venezuela  The country's heavily government-subsidized economy is expected  to contract by 1 percent in 2015, according to IMF projections.  "Scarcity is getting worse in Venezuela. Basic products are so  hard to get," said Josseline Viera, a doctor in Venezuela. "It  used to be that certain products were scarce, now it's basically  everything."  Viera says shortages have made it impossible for hospitals to  find essential medical products such as gauze and acetaminophen. Read MoreWhy Venezuela is so desperate, in 5 easy charts  "I basically have to send patients to other hospitals," she said.  "But patients have to go to a lot of clinics and hospitals before  they find the medical supplies they need for their care. I  feel very sorry for my country."  Experts predict the situation in Venezuela will worsen as early  as the first half of 2015. "It will be a year of extreme scarcity,"  Venezuelan economist Angel Garcia Banchs said. "What's coming to  Venezuela is chaos that will probably lead to barbarity and  people looting. "  The state of the Venezuelan economy is the result of years of  economic mismanagement that the government, for years, was able  to cover up by pumping oil revenues to support its populist policies. But  this was when oil was at more than $100 per barrel, and despite  declining oil production in Venezuela, revenues were enough to  keep people happy.  But since this summer, Brent  fell from above $115 per barrel to $70, thanks in part to North  America's shale boom, and oil analysts predict oil prices will  keep declining below $70 for Brent and even more for crude. Read MoreOPEC needs to 'wake up' to shale  revolution  One analyst at Nomura recently estimated that Venezuela may need  oil prices to hit $200 a barrel to balance its budget. (The precise figure is difficult to determine, because Venezuela  doesn't disclose as much economic data as other countries do.)  As oil prices keep falling and Venezuela is left empty-handed,  its government will have no other option but to increase taxes, impose price controls and potentially eliminate gasoline subsidies for  Venezuelans, something that will create unrest in the South  American country, according to Diego Moya-Ocampos, a senior political risk  analyst at IHS.  "This scenario increases the threat of a new wave of strong  anti-government protests in Caracas and key urban centers,"  Moya-Ocampos said. "Demonstrations can escalate into road blocks  and confrontations between security forces and protesters."  Moya-Ocampos also said that anti-government protests could  escalate as in the 1989 "Caracazo" or "Caracas disaster," in which fuel price  increases unleashed bloody riots: "This could lead to direct  or indirect military intervention to guarantee political  stability and bring about a change in the direction of economic  policy," he said.  A day after OPEC's announcement that it would not make the production cuts that Venezuela had pleaded for, President Nicolas Maduro tried to reassure Venezuelans that declining oil  prices won't affect social programs.  "If we had to cut anything back on our budget, we would cut extravagances, we would cut our own salaries as high officials,  but we will never cut one Bolivar of the money that goes to  education, food, housing, the missions of our nation," Maduro  said Friday during a televised address that was translated from the Spanish by CNBC.  Recent polls show Maduro's popularity has dropped to a record  low. Read MoreVenezuela, with world's largest  reserves, imports oil  "The economy will overcome politics," said the economist  Garcia Banchs, who noted that typically in Venezuela, economic realism has taken a back seat to political priorities. That's  about to change. "The economy will be on top, and political  changes will have to happen."  Venezuela's oil revenue could face another threat aside from  declining prices: approval of Keystone XL pipeline bill, which congressional  Republicans have vowed to bring back for another vote after they  return to Capitol Hill in January. If passed, the pipeline could  mean that heavy crude from Canada  would replace the crude Venezuela exports to the United States.  "If Venezuela were not willing to more heavily discount its crude  compared to Mexico's crude, then there's no point of getting it  (from Venezuela) if we can get it from Canada or Mexico," said Susan Kaufman Purcell,  director of the Center for Hemispheric Policy at the University  of Miami. "It will clearly affect Venezuela because of the three  countries, it's the most unreliable."