 Venezuela is desperate for cash.Days after OPEC decided not to give into Venezuela's  pleas to cut oil production, President Nicolas Maduro has begun talking up several moves to raise  money, including plans to slash 20 percent of  "unproductive" spending and an attempt at "perfecting" the  country's foreign exchange system. "Clearly the government is trying to send signs to the  market that they are working on necessary adjustments that the  economy needs in order to honor international commitments  and keep up with social policies, which are essential for  political stability," said Diego Moya-Ocampos, a senior political risk  analyst at IHS. "However, these policy adjustments are not  enough. This reflects simply that the government is  desperately looking for funds to compensate for the lost revenues  from declining oil prices."  Read MoreVenezuela's future? 'Barbarity and  people looting  The sharp decline in oil prices듁rent crude is at a five-year low들s making Venezuela's autocratic government act swiftly. The commodity  accounts for 95 percent of the country's  export earnings.   Barclays predicts that the economy will contract 6.2 percent and inflation will surpass 120 percent in 2015. The IMF projects Venezuela's economy to decline by a more modest 1 percent.  Last week, Venezuelan Finance Minister Rodolfo Marco went hat in  hand to China in a search for  loans. He's expected to visit Iran  and Russia next.  "We are thus skeptical that the economic team's plan to tap  international lenders, including China, over coming weeks will  yield any tangible results," Bank of America economist Francisco  Rodriguez said in a recent note.  China has already loaned tens of billions of dollars to  Venezuela등hich Caracas repays in oil shipments. About  half of the oil that Venezuela ships to China goes to paying down  existing debt. Read MoreCreating inflation is easy. Just ask  Venezuela  But political instability could prompt China to cut back on what  has been a critical source of revenue, analysts say.  "If that lifeline is cut, Venezuela doesn't have a whole lot of  options," said Eric Farnsworth, vice president at Council of the  Americas and Americas Society.  Perhaps the most interesting move by the cash-strapped  country드nd maybe the greatest sign of its  desperation들s that the leftist leadership is in talks with Wall Street. Venezuela  has been in conversations with Goldman  Sachs to sell at a deep discount debt owed to it by the  Dominican Republic and Jamaica, sources familiar with the talks  told CNBC.  No deal has been struck at this stage, sources said. But such an  agreement would turn debt that both countries owe to  Venezuela under the Petrocaribe alliance into bonds  that would be sold to investors. Petrocaribe is an 18-country cooperative agreement  in which Venezuela, one of the members, provides oil to  neighboring nations at low rates.  The move would be a good profit-making opportunity for the bank,  which would get a significant discount on the debt and wouldn't  hold the debt for too long, a person familiar with the talks said. Read MoreVenezuela, with world's largest  reserves, imports oil  Calls from CNBC to PDVSA, Venezuela's state-run oil and gas company, and  to Maduro's office were not returned. An email to the  Dominican Treasury also was not answered.  Venezuela's central bank announced Thursday that  it will add diamonds and other metals and precious  stones, as well as foreign currency, to its international  reserves.  The South American country's international reserves have been  under pressure, falling by more than a quarter in the last three  years and raising concerns about its ability to pay debts.  Venezuela recently used a $4 billion loan from China to boost  reserves.  Despite Venezuela's moves to get liquidity, some experts say it  won't be enough.  "This is not sustainable in the long term, unless you change the  state, fiscal and economy policy," said Oswaldo Ramirez, director  at ORC Consultores, a political consulting  firm in Venezuela.