  The world's second-largest economy is conflicted as far as an  OPEC production cut is concerned, one analyst told CNBC.  China is facing a "trade off" between its oil industry and the  rest of its economy, Miswin Mahesh, an oil market analyst for  Barclays, told CNBC via telephone. Ultimately though, Mahesh  asserted that "it is in China's interest that OPEC doesn't cut."  Mahesh explained that on the one hand, the Middle Kingdom's  upstream oil industry would benefit from a production cut and  subsequent higher prices as its domestic investment is falling. This is due the country's slowing economic growth. But downstream, and  for the rest of the economy which relies on imported oil, Mahesh  said that a cut might "not be in their interest."  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) agreed  to tackle the global supply glut last month by cutting production  levels by up to 700,000 barrels per day.  In order to shore up supply as domestic production slows, Mahesh  said that China has invested in the oil infrastructure of a  number of OPEC countries, including Ecuador, Venezuela, Iran and  Iraq. When asked about the incentives behind these particular  choices, Mahesh said that these partnerships could provide a  secure future source for imports.  China produces 4.15 million barrels of oil per day according to  Mahesh, making it one of the largest non-OPEC producers in the  world. But with regards to a future oil-related strategy for the  country, Mahesh explained that as domestic production drops,  China is "expecting to rely on these captive resources."  This could be sooner rather than later as GDP (gross domestic  product) data released Wednesday revealed that China's growth for  the third quarter of 2016 came in at 6.7 percent, identical to  the preceding two quarters. Louis Kuijs, head of Asia economics  at Oxford Economics, told CNBC Wednesday that "downward pressures  on the industrial side of the economy have not disappeared," and  that growth was pivoted on the government's "willing(ness) to  continue to prop up growth with credit."  Meanwhile, Sean Levine, director of research and product  development at Energy Capital Research Group, suggested that  China has an additional strategy to ensure the security of its  oil supply.  "China has good potential to serve as a cap on OPEC, primarily  due to its strategic petroleum reserves," he told CNBC via  telephone.   Levine referenced Orbital Insight data released in September  which indicated that China had 600 million barrels in its stocks  as of May 2016 – far higher than 234.3 million barrels, his  calculation of the country's official September figure – and  data which demonstrate that "imports skyrocketed but demand  tailed off." According to Levine, "if prices surge (due to an  OPEC cut) … China will not want to pay for comparatively  more expensive oil," because the country already has nearly as  much as it needs.  According to Levine, China had made use of the "rout on crude  prices to cherry pick pricing."  Follow CNBC International on Twitter and Facebook.