  The market is seeing early signs of an oil price bottom as Saudi  Arabia and Russia begin to feel the pressure stemming from the  glut, Petrie Partners Chairman Tom Petrie said Thursday.  Oil prices rallied in the last two sessions and surged Thursday on hopes that top oil  producer Russia will cooperate with OPEC and the Saudis to strike  a deal to tackle oversupply through production cuts.   Saudi Arabia has led OPEC's policy of keeping production steady  and defending market share. But Petrie, who has advised the  Saudis on oil policy, said Russia and Saudi Arabia now have a  common interest in somewhat better prices.  "Both of them are more in need of an improving price picture than  I think has generally been recognized," he told  CNBC's "Squawk  Box." "When you load in their social and security costs,  it's quite clear that somewhere around $30 per barrel really  begins to pinch them."  "This is the year for the inflection point," he added.Petrie made his comments shortly before Russian Energy Minister Alexander Novak said Thursday that  Saudi Arabia had proposed to cut oil production by up to 5  percent by each country in order to support weak oil prices.  After Novak made this claim, OPEC delegates  responded by saying there were no plans to hold talks to cut  production, according to reports.  Petri said he believes oil and gas exporting nations like Russia  and Saudi Arabia can live with the short-term pain of selling  less crude. "They don't have to cut back much. It's a matter of  taking the foot off the pedal just a little," he said.   As for the Saudis' more than yearlong output strategy, Petri  said they had successfully forced high-cost producers such as  U.S. shale drillers to reallocate capital away from developing  new oil production last year, and those capital spending cuts  will continue in 2016.  "In all likelihood, with those two back-to-back years, they will  have accomplished much of what their goal was with respect to  that," Petrie said. "And they've also sent signals to both Iran  and Russia that this is not a great path for any of them on a  long-term basis."  Oil and gas projects around the world worth $380 billion have  been postponed or canceled since 2014, according to Wood  Mackenzie, an energy consultancy.  Neil Dwane, Allianz Global Investors global strategist, said a production cut is unlikely based on his conversations  with clients in the Middle East.   Allianz is constructive on oil because the firm doesn't buy the  oversupply story, he said Thursday.  "We think the data is very, very fuzzy, and therefore we don't  think the world is awash with oil," he told CNBC's "Squawk on the  Street."  — Reuters contributed to this article.