 OPEC's glory days of steering  global oil prices may be at an end.  U.S. shale oil will replace the Organization of the Petroleum  Exporting Countries as the first-mover "swing producer,"  according to a Goldman Sachs report from the weekend—meaning  OPEC is losing its power to set global prices for crude.  Saudi Arabia, the world's largest oil exporter, no longer has  "the ability to push prices lower than the production costs of  U.S. shale" because any cuts from the kingdom would "accommodate  the further expansion of U.S. shale, as well as reduce Saudi  profits," Goldman said.  The shift in pricing power became apparent to Goldman when U.S.  shale's spare capacity, at around 5 million barrels per day,  exceeded Saudi Arabia's spare  capacity of 1.5 million. Spare capacity refers to the amount of  crude a country is able to produce in 30 days in case of an  emergency.  Read More 'Bipolar' markets lose the  fear; are they ready to relax?  This trend has been a long time coming, but the tipping point  started this year with significant cuts in West African oil  exports to the U.S., said John Kilduff, energy analyst and  founding partner of commodities investment firm Again Capital.  U.S. shale oil has replaced West African imports, which have been redirected to Asia.The balance was further tipped toward the U.S. when production rebounded in Libya and Iraq  despite political instability, adding to an already oversupplied market, Kilduff added. OPEC pumped 30.6 million barrels of crude oil per day inSeptember, a jump of 400,000 barrels from August that was driven by the Libyan output rebound, found Platts, a global energy information service. Read More Despite washout, hedge  funds not bailing on energy   OPEC's loss in pricing power is a consequence of not taking U.S.  producers more seriously and cutting prices earlier for clients,  said Phil Flynn, senior energy market analyst at Price Futures  Group.    "Only a year ago, OPEC was still in denial, but with the slowing  global economy, they can't laugh off U.S. production anymore,"  Flynn said.   By 2019, U.S. shale oil production will jump to 9.6 million barrles per day, from 8 million now, according to forecasts from the Energy Information Administration. In  comparison, Saudi Arabia currently produces 9.6 million barrels of crude oil a day.   All that said, market watchers across the board expect OPEC to remain highly influential when it comes to the price of oil.  The group will likely cut production when the core countries meet in Vienna on  Nov. 27, according to Kilduff. "OPEC is in the process of playing chicken with the  market," he said. "But their hand will be forced and they  will eventually cut, with the Saudis taking on the bulk of it."OPEC has absorbed lower oil prices up until this point, declining to cut output in a bid to maintain market share.Read More  How the US shale boom will be felt around the world   "The main reason why OPEC is not cutting production is they  realize that U.S. shale is a serious threat to their global oil  space," Flynn said.  The cyclical nature of the oil industry makes it unlikely that OPEC has lost its price-setting power permanently, Kilduff said: "There's a boom, bust and a new era upon us all the time. So, the  jury's still out on the long-term sustainability of U.S. shale  production."