  OPEC's plan to shake up the world oil market may have backfired  for now.  Just a year ago, the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting  Countries decided to let market forces determine the price of  oil, rather than its own production quotas.  Conventional thinking then was that the U.S. oil patch would be  littered with bankruptcies, and production would collapse. As for  Russia, the world's largest energy producer would be forced to  cut back production by hundreds of thousands of barrels this year  due to both the weakness in oil prices and the impact of Western  financial sanctions.  But the results have turned out very different. Instead of  falling off, production increased from where it was last year,  and the world is still swimming in oil. The three biggest  producers — Russia, the United States and Saudi Arabia — have in  fact been adding more than 1 million barrels a day  more to the market in the past year. "It really was a historic change. OPEC resigned and said it  wasn't going to be the manager of the market. Let the market  manage itself. The thought was that Russia would be hit harder  than it's been hit," said Daniel Yergin, vice chairman of analysis firm IHS. "The most frequent conspiracy theory was that the U.S. and Saudis  conspired to bring down the price of oil to hurt Russia, which of  course is ridiculous. The expectation was that U.S. production  would collapse much more quickly than it has. Those were two of  the big expectations of what would happen. I think the resilience  of U.S. shale, even with the pressure on it now, has really been  one of the biggest surprises of the industry."  The three major producers have not gone unscathed, including  Saudi Arabia, which was the force behind OPEC's change in policy.  The new conventional wisdom is that the price of oil will be "lower for longer," and will not show signs of a pickup until  well into next year or later. As for OPEC, it meets again this  week and it is expected to hold tight on its new pricing policy.Read MoreThis is when oil will hit rock bottom: CNBC Survey  "I think the Gulf producers, led by Saudi Arabia, are  expecting that this is going to be a perfunctory meeting, in the  sense there's nothing new to do. There's no indication that  they're going to abruptly change their policy. They are very  concerned about market share. And they're very concerned about  Iran coming back to the market, and how aggressive Iran is going  to be in terms of trying to take markets back. The rhetoric about  the oil market from Iran is pretty aggressive," Yergin said.Read MoreCommentary: The party is over for oilIran, which has been economically crippled by export restrictions for years, hopes to start shipping oil in the first half of 2016 in the wake of this year's nuclear deal.To deal with the new reality of persistently cheap oil, Saudi  Arabia has been tapping the debt market, issuing bonds for the  first time in seven years to help cover budget shortfalls. The Saudi Arabian state is a profligate spender.  Analysts say they expect Saudi Arabia to continue issuing debt, and the  sense in the kingdom seems to be that it's better policy to issue  debt when it can be done, than when it is really needed.  "They'll definitely be doing more bond issues in the next year,"  said Greg Priddy, director of global energy and natural resources  at Eurasia Group. "Their level of government spending is  predicated on oil prices around $100 a barrel. Prices where they  are — that is not sustainable on a long-term basis." He added that Saudi borrowing levels — $27 billion expected so far — are fine  now, but could be problematic if they continue over several years.   Saudi Arabia is an extremely low-cost oil producer, pumping crude at well below $10 a barrel. But its subsidy costs are high,  and it has an elevated level of unemployment, particularly among the young.  According to Stratfor, the kingdom is estimated to have $662 billion in  reserves, and it spent about $84 billion between August 2014 and  August 2015 to make up for the loss in oil revenue.  "It's our understanding that Saudi Arabia is involved in  discussions to get large loans from Western banks. They have both  access to credit and they have more in reserves. They're better  positioned to ride out a longer storm while they tighten their  belts," said Edward Morse, global head of commodities research at  Citigroup. "The Russians don't have quite the same window of  luxury as the Saudis. Over time, the Russian economy is in a more  vulnerable state than the Saudi economy."  Morse said the Saudis have a more urgent need to find ways to  employ locals. "They certainly have the money to do something.  They should have done it a long time ago, by ending subsidies to  the population and finding ways to diversify the economy," Morse  said. He said the Saudis could have developed a petrochemical  business or taken other steps to change the economic mix.Read MoreThe party is over for oil: Dan Yergin  "They have the most vibrant stock market in all the Middle East.  They are in significantly better position financially than Russia  might be at the moment. Both would like to see higher oil  prices," he said.  For the Saudis, the battle started with concerns about market  share, and the rapid increase in U.S. crude production changed  the global landscape over the last several years, reducing U.S.  reliance on foreign oil, displacing barrels that once came to  U.S. shores.   At the same time, the Saudis have been fighting to maintain market  share in other parts of the world. For instance, Russia surpassed  Saudi Arabia as the largest exporter to China this year, but Saudi  Arabia used price cuts to overtake Russia for share and reclaimed  the top spot in the most recent reports.  "They never themselves used the term of swing producer, but they  did want to be the balancer of the market with spare capacity,"  said Yergin. Saudi Arabia has also gone after share in other  ways.   "They are clearly building up their refining capacity to be an  exporter of refined products, not just crude," said Yergin. "They  have joint ventures in Asia but they have a big commitment to  increase their refining capacity in Saudi Arabia."  The kingdom has also maintained its investment strategy, while  others have cut back to the point where many major, early stage projects around the world have been shelved."They have the longest time horizon of any entity in the world oil industry. They have obviously been bringing down their foreign reserves, but they still have very ample reserves. It hasn't had the same effect you've seen in other places," said Yergin.  Russia, meanwhile, has surprised the market on several fronts,  managing to keep production growing for now even with super-low  prices.  "The Russian view is they will pump as much oil as they can all  of the time and deal with the financial consequences after," said  Chris Weafer, senior founding partner at Eurasia consulting firm Macro-Advisory. "They will  never voluntarily cut production or reduce supply in order to  manage oil prices. That is simply not going to happen. It's out  of the question. ... Occasionally you get speculation Russia is  talking to OPEC. That's cosmetic. It's never going to happen."       As in the U.S., Russia's oil producers have improved efficiency by using new technologies to improve production for some of their  old wells. But Russia has been hampered in developing new Arctic, deep-water or shale projects because of the financial  sanctions placed on it by the West after it invaded Ukraine.  "This year, oil is up 1.5 percent despite the sanctions. What we  hear is the companies are having to deal with the fallout from  sanctions, but it's not the lack of access to engineering services  or spare parts," said Weafer. "The big problem they all have to  deal with is the financial sanctions ... oil companies are  having to pay down external debt, and they're not able to replace  that." External debt was $740 billion in January 2014, and  it's now around $500 billion, he said.  "They've been forced to deleverage across the board," Weafer said. But because the companies are becoming more  efficient, he does not anticipate a big drop in oil  production.  "Technology and efficiency have been (big factors), and there's no  reason to expect there will be a big falloff next year. If  sanctions stay in place for another 12 months, you wouldn't  expect Russian oil production to change too much. There's  speculation there'd be a big drop down of 500,000, 700,000  (barrels a day). That's still not in the cards. At worst, it  could be a slippage of a couple hundred thousand. The efficiency  gains have kicked in."  But another factor has kicked in as well, and that has proven the  key for Russian production. The Russian central bank's policy of  letting the ruble float with oil prices has helped keep costs  down.  "Russians have said they can't cut. Oil and natural gas has  provided about half of their budget but they've been insulated  ironically by the fall in the value of the ruble," said Yergin.  "The dollar price of oil may be down. So is the value of the  ruble. So domestically, it hasn't crimped their spending as much.  This has been very good for their service industry. What has been  circumscribed is the role of Western companies, but that's not  because of the fall in oil prices. That's because of the  sanctions."  Weafer said that in 2013, Russia needed international bellwether Brent crude to run at $113 a barrel in order to balance its budget. That has changed. "This year the budget will balance at $73/74. There's been  a big reduction in the oil price needed to balance the  budget."   Russia's attempts to cut its debts due to the sanctions are likely to leave its  industry in a stronger position to acquire new debt, new  investment and ultimately, to grow, Weafer said. "I don't mean to  imply that everything is fine here. There's consequences of the  weak ruble, which has been positive for the budget deficit and  cutting imports. The bad side is it caused inflation to ratchet  up ... and it means the central bank had to move up its  benchmark rate to 17 percent last December." The interest  rate was back down to 11 percent in the summer.  "This has not come without considerable pain. The difference is  people have not reacted to it. Russian companies tend not to cut  jobs. They cut salaries rather than jobs," Weafer said.  But Morse said Russian companies are expected to face new taxes,  and that could challenge their costs. Russian companies though have an average production cost below $20 a barrel.  Russia's success with letting its currency devalue seems to be in  part behind the speculation that Saudi Arabia and other Gulf  producers could seek to de-peg their currencies from the U.S.  dollar. But analysts do not see a high likelihood of that for  now.  The Kremlin, meanwhile, has its own problems with sanctions, and  Weafer said it's a priority to have them removed. "The oil price  collapse is what brought Russia into recession, but oil price  recovery will not bring Russia back to growth," he said, noting that the removal of sanctions on its financial  sector "is critical to return the country  to growth."  Unlike other producing countries, the U.S. has no state ownership  of oil companies, and the industry is a collection of hundreds of  companies large and small that can produce oil at an estimated  cost of $30 to $60 per barrel. According to Yergin in 2014, 80  percent of the new production in the U.S. in 2014 came from 30  percent of the new wells.Read MoreHow US drillers are weathering OPEC's new order  Citigroup estimates that production costs for shale producers will fall by 25 to 30 percent through 2016 and offshore costs will fall slightly less. But even with cheaper costs and greater efficiency, the  industry has been feeling the pinch. There have been  bankruptcies, and indebted companies are expected to increasingly  have trouble getting financing. Citigroup sees capex spending for new projects dropping 48 percent in 2016 through 2020, from the preceding five years. It expects offshore to be more impacted than other production.   "I think the Saudis, among others, have been surprised by the  robustness of U.S. production and the sticking power. Finally,  we're seeing clear signs of a rollover in production. We don't  know the degree to which it is rolled," said Morse. "It's clearly  being impacted."  He said U.S. deep-water production is not being affected, but one  vulnerable area is stripper well production, or small wells that  produce 15 barrels a day or less. "They are mostly ma and pa  rather than big companies. It's likely they'd suffer from  negative cash flow because they don't want to lose their right to  pump," he said. They could result in losses of 400,000 barrels  per day in production next year, and about 300,000 this  year, according to Morse.   "It's reasonable to think (U.S. production) is about 9.2 million  (barrels a day) now," he said. "We think it'll fall depending on  what the rig count is into the summer of next year, maybe down to  around 8.7 million."  The worst could be ahead for the U.S. industry if oil prices stay  low. For one, financing could become a problem, particularly  for companies with high-yield or "junk"-rated debt. Analysts say it's becoming clear that some companies did  not hedge in the derivatives market against such a steep and long-lasting downturn in oil prices. "Hedges roll off in Q1. When they get to Q2, they'll have more  naked exposure to the oil price. We expect more consolidation in  the industry in the U.S. Whether or not it's looked at as a  reduction in production, it will be looked at as bullish by the  financial markets. We think the combination of the high-yield  universe of companies seeing their hedges roll over by Q2 and  certainly the redetermination of reserved-based lending in  April, producing more of a hit on the financial stability of  these companies," Morse said.   As for the future, in a world where prices ultimately stabilize,  the big three producers are all seen playing a large role, but perhaps somewhat differently.  Morse expects to see the U.S. government ultimately end its self-imposed ban  on oil exports, and that will make the U.S. a bigger  force in driving global oil prices.  "I think the U.S. combined with the spread of shale is going to  be a phenomenal factor in boosting market principles going  forward. The Russians will be trying to use oil as an instrument  of foreign policy in their  neighborhood, and China is one such  neighbor. It's not clear to me, at the end of the day, that  Russia has more leverage," he said.  "The Saudis are handicapped by their proclivity to use energy as  an instrument of foreign policy in a world where the buyers have  more leverage over them," Morse said.  "I don't know how to think about how the Saudis try to implement  their national interest through oil. They will almost need to buy  a market share by building refineries around the world like  they've done in the U.S., and like they are trying to do in  China," he said.