  Market watchers scrutinizing fluctuations in volatile  crude oil prices shouldn't expect upward moves to last, publisher  Dennis Gartman said Thursday.  No meaningful reversal will occur so long as storage facilities  continue to fill up and OPEC refuses to lower its production ceiling in order to  support prices, he said.  "As long as crude is bidding for storage, as long as there's an  abundance of crude — and there is an abundance of  crude — as long as the Saudis continue to say we're going to  defend our market share, any bounces that you get will be short  term," The Gartman Letter editor and publisher told  CNBC's "Squawk  Box."  To support his thesis, Gartman pointed to the widening gap  between the near-term price of oil, or the spot price, and the  cost of contracts for future crude deliveries. The price of  oil one year from now is nearly $9 higher than spot prices,  setting up a situation known as contango.  However, contango has not yet reached levels that would  incentivize putting more crude on ships and holding it for sales for 12  months, said Matt Smith, director of commodity research at  ClipperData. Prices a year from now would need to be about $15 higher in order to prompt  more offshore storage, he said Thursday.  At present, too much crude, both onshore and off, is simply  pushing prices lower, he said.  "Inventories are crazy high at the moment. We're at 485 million  barrels here in the U.S. But also … there's a bunch of ships.  … There's 54 vessels currently off the U.S. Gulf Coast  holding about 31 million barrels of oil," he told "Squawk  Box."  OPEC's decision last week to roll over its current policy of  allowing members to essentially pump as much as they can has only  put more pressure on oil prices. Both  internationally traded  and U.S.  benchmark West Texas Intermediate futures  have fallen to nearly seven-year lows since the meeting.  Gartman said the Saudis, who have spearheaded the policy,  essentially "called an end to OPEC," which has historically  intervened to prop up prices.  "OPEC, really, for all intents and purposes is now just a visit  to Vienna," he said, referring to the group's annual meeting  location. "They've said to the free market, you price this stuff,  we have lost our capability."