  After another volatile session, oil looks increasingly set to  test its lows of the year, and that could mean a temporary  decline of near 20 percent.  Analysts say crude futures could continue to trade lower for now  if the twin pressures on risk markets from Greece and China  continue, and Iran succeeds in striking a nuclear deal that would  ultimately mean more oil would hit an already oversupplied crude  market.  On Tuesday, West Texas Intermediate futures for August traded  higher early in the session and then plunged, touching the  psychologically key $50 area before again reversing course.  Already about 8 percent lower than at the start of the week, WTI  futures lost just 20 cents Tuesday to finish at $52.33 per barrel.  "For now, I think we've bounced back…. Any more instability  makes it swoon lower, but I think it's premature to say this is  going to hell in a handbasket. Could it go there? Yep," said Bart  Melek, head of commodities strategy at TD Securities.  Melek said the market is nervous about Greece but is also now  worried that China has so far not been able to stem the selloff  in its stock market even after taking policy steps to do so. He  expects Greece to ultimately come to an understanding with the  euro zone, but in the meanwhile negative headlines on talks  between Greece and European leaders have made the market  volatile. Read MoreDay after rout, oil  closes barely changed  "We do think things improve but in the meantime, you have the  oversupply situation and demand is in doubt. We do think there's  risk of oversupply for a long time," Melek said. "Technically on  WTI, we've fallen through some technical support levels and,  depending on what happens, we could test the low."  The question, though, is when the lows would be tested. Some  strategists say it would be more likely at the end of the third  quarter or early fourth quarter, when gasoline demand drops off  and U.S. refiners undergo maintenance, requiring less crude.  Gene McGillian of Tradition Energy said the big drop on Monday does not appear to  have been heavy liquidation of positions and there still appear  to be a lot of longs in the market. "A lot of them are still in,  and if we don't see any pickup in demand or pullback in  production, they could all get flushed out if we drop below $50,"  he said.  McGillian points to the retracement level from the May high to  the March low at $49.20, and says that will be a key area. If oil  should break that, some traders believe it will not see support  until it gets to the March 18 low of $42.03 per barrel. Read MoreThe next stop for oil  prices  "Certainly half of it's about financial flows and which players  are pulling back. It could stabilize at this point," said Eric  Lee, energy analyst at Citigroup. "You flushed out a little more  length in the market, so perhaps there's less impetus for massive  downside at this point."  Oil's recent decline was also in part a reaction to a build in  U.S. supply and a report on U.S. rig counts, showing the first  increase in rigs in 29 weeks. U.S. weekly oil inventory data will  be released Wednesday at 10:30 a.m. ET.  Lee said it appears some of the selling in the front of the  futures curve was being done by the oil ETFs, but there was also  strong selling at the back end of the curve, likely macro players  like hedge funds and others.  If oil retests its lows, analysts expect the move lower to be  temporary. Melek expects the average third-quarter price for WTI  to be about $60 per barrel, and the fourth quarter would be even  higher at $63 per barrel.Read MoreOil rout could be worse for drillers than you think  "We still think we're going to see robust declines in U.S.  output," he said, noting the drop of more than 60 percent in rig  count will still take its toll on production. "There's usually  about a six-month lag."   Lee said U.S. shale production is more difficult to forecast than  traditional drillers. "That's the tricky thing—the U.S. part  of the issue.... Where is U.S. production going to end up? Where  are U.S. producers going to end up? Where is the price going to  end up? The big new factor that means we're now in a $50 oil  market, not a $100 oil market, is the emergence of shale," he  said.   U.S. shale production has surprised the market, as many producers  have continued to use the technology in more efficient and  cost-effective ways, maintaining production at  lower-than-expected prices. Lee said at $65, there were producers  making plans to resume production and already there are plans to  add rigs back in and bring on some that are partially completed.  The oil market has been struggling this year with the ramped-up  production from Saudi Arabia and other OPEC members as they  pledged not to back off on their 30 million barrels-per-day  production target, yet Platts, a provider of energy  and metals information, said OPEC produced 31.3  million barrels a day in June.  The U.S., meanwhile, has also been producing about 9.6 million  barrels a day, and the Energy Information Administration now  expects U.S. average output this year of 9.47 million barrels a  day.   That has resulted in the oil market's being oversupplied by 1.5  to 2 million barrels a day, and while demand has picked up, more  oil is finding its way onto the market. For instance, Iraq's  production has increased this year, and it is now producing 4.3  million barrels a day.  "I think we could test the lows, but I think you're really  looking at later this year when refineries go into turnaround  season and we see demand decline seasonally," said Andrew Lipow,  president of Lipow Oil Associates.   I think that in conjunction with Iraq production at record levels  and Russia and Saudi Arabia at near records, and if Iran reaches  an agreement … come later in the year when we also could  have a significant amount of Iranian oil hit the market, we could  retest that low in the low $40s."  U.S. gasoline demand was at 9.7 million barrels a day in late  June, a historically high level while U.S. refiners, running at  95 percent, are pushing out record levels of gasoline. In the  past seven weeks, there were three weeks when production rose  above 10 million barrels a day, something seen only once before,    in December 2014.  "It's been the gasoline demand that's been the big surprise this  year," Lipow said.  Lee also said the market could retest the lows in the fourth  quarter, when the refining industry will be running at lower  levels.  But the anticipation of that event could also keep prices lower.  "There's enough of a belief it's going to happen. You could see  some selling ahead of time," he said. 