  The World Bank has upped its oil price forecast for 2015, but the  marginal rebound in the price of Brent crude at the start of the  year won't pull energy prices up to anywhere near 2014 levels,  the international body said on Wednesday.   Crude oil is now expected to average $57 per barrel for the year—up from the World's Bank's estimate of $53 per barrel back  in April. Geopolitical tensions and more closures of high-cost  oils rigs could push the forecast even higher, the bank added in  its "Commodity Markets Outlook" report.   This follows a greater-than-expected 17 percent rise in crude  prices in the second quarter, even as prices for other energy  commodities, such as natural gas and coal, declined, the World  Bank said. In general, commodities, including metals and  agricultural products declined between April and June.   Natural gas fell 13 percent during the time period, while coal  saw a 4 percent decline, both on the back of weak demand and  excessive supply.   Though the increase in oil prices more than offset the natural  gas and coal stumble, combined energy prices are still projected  to average 39 percent below 2014 levels.   Despite a slightly recovery earlier this year, Brent crude prices have  fallen almost 50 percent over the past 12 months, with oil  trading around $57 per barrel on Wednesday.  Read More  Cramer: Why I was so wrong about oil  The World Bank forecast flat oil prices for the rest of the year,  "even as the large supply surplus begins to contract."   It added that rising output from the Organization of Petroleum  Exporting Countries (OPEC) would continue to pressure prices. The oil cartel has refused to cut production in the hopes  of squeezing non-members like the U.S. and Russia out of the  market.   "Despite the marginal increase in the price forecast for 2015,  large inventories and rising output from OPEC members suggest  prices will likely remain weak in the medium-term," said John  Baffes, senior economist and lead author of the "Commodity  Markets Outlook", said in an accompanying press release.   However, Neil Atkinson, head of analysis at Lloyd's List  Intelligence told CNBC: "That's a tired old record, blaming  OPEC." He said that collectively, oil producers across the world  were making more than demand could meet.    Still, Atkinson said the minor bump in the World Bank's forecast  made "reasonable sense," given the firmer trend in oil prices  since mid-April. He said that his own forecast for prices also  fell between $55 to $65 per barrel.   Sanford C. Bernstein has taken a relatively bullish view,  forecasting a $65 per barrel average for the year. Its outlook  for 2016 Brent crude prices is even higher, at $86 per barrel.  "We firmly believe that we'll see a structural reduction in  supply growth," Nicholas Green, a senior research analyst at the  asset management firm, told CNBC, adding that the reduction would  most likely need to come from North America. 