  The January contract for U.S. crude oil settled higher on Tuesday  after touching a more than five-year low earlier in the session  as players sought a sustainable price for oil in a market haunted  by oversupply concerns.   WTI futures settled up 77 cents at $63.82 on the Chicago Mercantile  Exchange, after swinging between a high of $64.20 and low of  $62.25.  Sentiment in oil was aided somewhat by a weaker dollar that boosted the value of commodities  denominated in the currency, traders said.  Lower capital expenditure for next year planned by oil companies  such as ConocoPhillips also helped  as they indicated less drilling and production.  But fear of a further slide after a 40-percent drop in Brent's  value since June kept market bulls away, analysts said.  Benchmark  was up 49 cents at $66.68 a barrel after  falling as low as $65.29, its weakest since September 2009. Brent  dropped 4.2 percent or $2.88 on Monday in its third-largest  one-day loss this year. Read MoreVenezuela needs cash, but there's no  easy way to get it  Worries about the impact of lower oil prices on the global  economy weighed on Wall Street stocks, capping the rebound in  crude, as well.  "We're just treading water, if you ask me," Gene McGillian,  senior analyst at Tradition Energy in Stamford, Connecticut,  said, referring to Tuesday's higher prices for oil.  "There's this idea again that we may have over-extended to the  downside and that's why you're seeing some short covering coming  in as people try to find a bottom to the six-month slide we've  seen now." Read MoreOil prices tumble further after Morgan  Stanley cuts forecast  Supply and demand will set the price of oil in coming months, an  oil official from the United Arab Emirates said on Tuesday, the  latest sign that Gulf members in the Organization of the  Petroleum Exporting Countries were ready to weather lower prices  after deciding not to cut output last month.  The tumble in Brent and U.S. crude futures has been exacerbated  by price cuts made by Saudi Arabia and Iraq to the oil they sold  to the United States and Asia as the largest producers in OPEC  tried to compete for market share.  New U.S. projections show oil production from the big three U.S.  shale plays should grow by more than 100,000 barrels per day by  January, although many shale companies were starting to make deep  cuts to spending for next year.CNBC contributed to this report.