Zennor completes North Sea wells 
22052019

0836
Oil MarketIndependent UK oil and gas firm Zennor Petroleum announced Tuesday the completion of drilling and testing operations at the Finlaggan field in the North Sea, Kallanish Energy reports.The company, operator and sole owner of the project, is targeting 30 million barrels of oil equivalent of gas condensate. The F1 and F2 production wells each flowed more than 12,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day with higher-than-expected flowing wellhead pressures.
 
First production is expected by the end of 2020. The construction work of the subsea system is on schedule for installation in the third quarter 2019.
 
"All of our teams continue to work exceptionally hard, alongside our main contractors, to deliver the Finlaggan project safely as planned and their progress and achievements, to date, talk to their skill and dedication," said Martin Rowe, managing director at Zennor, in a release.
 
"With the drilling and completion phase behind us, we are now fully focused on the summer 2019 subsea installation program which will take us another step closer to realizing first production from Finlaggan next year," he added.
Source: kallanishenergy.com
The company, operator and sole owner of the project, is targeting 30 million barrels of oil equivalent of gas condensate. The F1 and F2 production wells each flowed more than 12,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day with higher-than-expected flowing wellhead pressures. First production is expected by the end of 2020. The construction work of the subsea system is on schedule for installation in the third quarter 2019. "All of our teams continue to work exceptionally hard, alongside our main contractors, to deliver the Finlaggan project safely as planned and their progress and achievements, to date, talk to their skill and dedication," said Martin Rowe, managing director at Zennor, in a release. "With the drilling and completion phase behind us, we are now fully focused on the summer 2019 subsea installation program which will take us another step closer to realizing first production from Finlaggan next year," he added.Source: kallanishenergy.com