  Energy experts poured scorn on the prospect of Russia and Saudi  Arabia collaborating to stabilize the oil market, after the two  countries made a joint statement to that effect on Monday.   The two major oil producers announced at the G-20 summit in China  that they would form a group to monitor the market and make  recommendations on stabilizing prices, according to media  reports. Russian Energy Minister Alexander Novak described the  moment as "historic" and touted the possibility of the  much-discussed-but-never-delivered crude production freeze.   Commodity strategists told CNBC that the statement might push  crude prices higher in the short-term, perhaps toward $50 per  barrel, but insisted that little in the way of deeper cooperation  was likely.   "The running gag of the 'freeze' means just nothing," Eugen  Weinberg, head of commodity research at Commerzbank, told CNBC on  Monday.   "As to the cooperation between Russia and Saudi Arabia — no  chance! It's clearly just lip service since real cooperation  between these competitors is just impossible," he later  added. Crude oil futures rallied sharply in the build-up to the  announcement, before paring some gains once it was out. Light  crude futures for October traded over 2 percent higher at around  $45.40 per barrel after the news, with volumes lower than usual  because of the U.S. Labor Day holiday.   WTI crude futures for October have rallied sharply this year, but  remain far below the levels above $100 per barrel at which oil  traded prior to the commodities slump that began in July 2014.  "The press conference came and went without any significant  initiatives being announced. Once again it highlights key  producers' ability to talk up the market without backing it by  action," Ole Hansen, head of commodities strategy at SaxoBank,  told CNBC on Monday.   "I expect the market to drift lower as this was an exercise in  building up expectations without delivering anything," he  added. With Saudi production at high levels and Russia lacking the means  to cut output, it is debatable how much a freeze would achieve,  even if agreed.  Fereidun Fesharaki, founder of energy consultancy, FACTS Global  Energy, described Monday's announcements as "gimmicks" designed  to boost prices for a few days or weeks.    "Fundamentals do not change at all with the freeze. Saudis  have upped their production to 10.7 million barrels per day so  immediate surge capacity for them is not more than 200,000 to  300,000 barrels per day. They max production then they talk  freeze and markets are so stupid they take this as positive," he  told CNBC on Monday.   Even if Saudi Arabia and non-OPEC member Russia agreed to a  freeze, there would still be the thorny matter of gaining the  cooperation of other OPEC countries. Several attempts have failed  in the past, in particular because Saudi Arabia has been wedded  to keeping output high to hold market share. However, Saudi  Arabia is not alone in scuppering deals, with Iran refusing to  join forces with Saudi Arabia, Russia, Qatar and Venezuela in  freezing output in February.  "Saudi (Arabia) might have seen that it would be very difficult  to get a freeze/cut agreement accepted within OPEC. Iran would  not accept such an agreement and Saudi (Arabia) would not like to  cut or freeze alone," Thina Margrethe Saltvedt, a senior analyst  at Nordea, told CNBC on Monday.   "Maybe Saudi (Arabia) finds it easier to cooperate with Russia to  get an agreement that actually has an effect on the market. A  small cut from UAE (United Arab Emirates) or Qatar would not help  and member countries like Venezuela and Nigeria would not cut as  they are facing deep economic and political problems. So —  Russia and Saudi could agree on a freeze agreement at today's  level, but I doubt it would have a major impact on the market,"  she said.   Follow CNBC International on Twitter and Facebook.