  Andhra farmers to earn moreGroup certification for organic farmers in the state 

ABOUT  6,000 farmers from 138 villages in Andhra Pradesh who practise organic farming can next year expect a premium price for their 
produce. Certification by the National Centre for Organic Farming in Ghaziabad will help them earn more.   

The Society for Elimination of Rural Poverty (serp), under the state's rural development ministry, has initiated the 
certification process.  serp  has been promoting non-pesticidal management  (npm)  
programme in the state (see 'Made it',  Down To Earth, January 1-15, 2009). The farmers selected for certification first gave up use of 
synthetic pesticides under  npm  programme and then switched to organic farming which does not use synthetic 
fertilizers either. They  have been practising organic farming for the past two to three years.  

The National Centre for Organic Farming along with the Organic Farmers' Association of India will train these farmers to become field inspectors 
and conduct random checks for soil and crop quality, and maintain field records. The six-month training will begin in May and organic certification 
will be   given late next year.  

"We are going for group certification under the Participatory Guarantee Scheme so that it is cost effective for the farmers and they get a better 
price for their produce," said T Vijay Kumar, the chief executive officer of  serp  (see box). "There is a large potential 
in the domestic market for chemical-free produce  which we want to tap," he added.   

The certification will fetch the farmer an additional Rs four to five per kilogramme for each crop. The certified produce would carry a unique 
number indicating its origin. A brand name is yet to be decided, said Jayaram Killi, consultant with  serp . Export 
potential will also be explored, he added.  

Though EU and the US do not accept such certification, it opens avenues for export of organic farm produce to Latin American countries.   
We are a voice to you; you have been a support to us. Together we build journalism that is independent, credible and fearless. You can further help us by making a donation. This will mean a lot for our ability to bring you news, perspectives and analysis from the ground so that we can make change together.Comments are moderated and will be published only after the site moderator's approval. Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name. Selected comments may also be used in the 'Letters' section of the Down To Earth print edition.