China urges authorities to prepare for possible locust invasion1 Min ReadBEIJING, March 2 (Reuters) - China could be facing a locust invasion, a government body warned on Monday, urging local authorities to prepare for the arrival of the voracious insects that are already in neighbouring Pakistan and India. Though the risk is low, China will be hampered in tracking the locusts by a lack of monitoring techniques and little knowledge of the patterns of the insect's migration, China's National Forestry and Grassland Administrations said in a statement on its website. (Reporting by Hallie Gu and Shivani Singh; Editing by Tom Hogue)All quotes delayed a minimum of 15 minutes. See here for a complete list of exchanges and delays.(c) 2020 Reuters. All Rights Reserved. into China's Xinjiang region. Authorities in the western region, which also borders Pakistan, said mountains and the absence of tropical and sub-tropical deserts have reduced the chances of locusts migrating into the area, but such a possibility will increase in June and July if outbreaks can not be effectively controlled overseas, Xinhua reported on Monday. Customs at Khunjerab, a pass between China and Pakistan in southwestern Xinjiang, have started monitoring surrounding areas within 2 km for locusts. They are inspecting or sterilizing vehicles and goods crossing the border, targeting locust adults that might come along or soil and plants that contain the insects eggs, according to the state media.  The desert locusts have already ravaged crops and pastures in several countries in east Africa and swarms have spread into India and Pakistan. Locust swarms can fly up to 150 km (90 miles) a day with the wind, and adult insects can consume roughly their own weight in fresh food per day. Beijing has set up a task force that will meet this month to monitor and act on any locust invasion, the government body said. Local forestry and grassland administrations "must be fully aware of the extreme importance of prevention and control work against locusts," it said. They should store pesticides and equipment and have personnel ready to take immediate and effective measures once locusts are detected, it added. Reporting by Hallie Gu and Shivani Singh; Editing by Tom Hogue and Richard PullinAll quotes delayed a minimum of 15 minutes. See here for a complete list of exchanges and delays.(c) 2020 Reuters. All Rights Reserved.