  Drive to fitnessRace>> Energy * Australia



On May 2, when 20-odd vehicles did a lap of honour around a racing track in Hobart in Australia there were smiling faces and tired limbs but no acrid smell of fuel. The vehicles had just completed six laps of the one-km track, powered by human energy. 

Organizer Geoff Collis of the Rosny College in the Tasmanian capital said the yearly event, in its sixth edition, is serious business, combining teamwork and fitness. "The mechanics of these recumbent vehicles are advanced. Some can go up to 40 km an hour," he said. A spokesperson of the event's chief sponsor,  ract,  said, "This activity is unique in that it fosters integration of school, college and tertiary communities with state and local governments and the business sector."Race>> Energy * Australia

On May 2, when 20-odd vehicles did a lap of honour around a racing track in Hobart in Australia there were smiling faces and tired limbs but no acrid smell of fuel. The vehicles had just completed six laps of the one-km track, powered by human energy. 

Organizer Geoff Collis of the Rosny College in the Tasmanian capital said the yearly event, in its sixth edition, is serious business, combining teamwork and fitness. "The mechanics of these recumbent vehicles are advanced. Some can go up to 40 km an hour," he said. A spokesperson of the event's chief sponsor,  ract,  said, "This activity is unique in that it fosters integration of school, college and tertiary communities with state and local governments and the business sector."We are a voice to you; you have been a support to us. Together we build journalism that is independent, credible and fearless. You can further help us by making a donation. This will mean a lot for our ability to bring you news, perspectives and analysis from the ground so that we can make change together.Comments are moderated and will be published only after the site moderator's approval. Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name. Selected comments may also be used in the 'Letters' section of the Down To Earth print edition.