  Energy audit shyThe Bureau of Energy  Efficiency (bee), the Centre's nodal agency  for energy conservation, intends to make energy efficiency rating  mandatory for all office buildings across India by 2011.

 But its scheme  to coax office building owners to voluntarily get their properties  assessed for energy efficiency has few takers. Under the scheme, the  most energy efficient buildings get five-star rating and the least  efficient ones get a single star.

The voluntary scheme was started in 2009 and so far only 100 odd  building owners have volunteered for energy audit.  bee   said there are over 7,000 commercial buildings with a connected load  of 100 kW and above that are covered by the scheme. Energy economist  with  bee, Sanjay Seth said, "Till now we  have star rated 100 day-use buildings and 20 buildings used by IT and  bpo  companies that operate during the night  also." The Bureau of Energy  Efficiency (bee), the Centre's nodal agency  for energy conservation, intends to make energy efficiency rating  mandatory for all office buildings across India by 2011.

 But its scheme  to coax office building owners to voluntarily get their properties  assessed for energy efficiency has few takers. Under the scheme, the  most energy efficient buildings get five-star rating and the least  efficient ones get a single star.

The voluntary scheme was started in 2009 and so far only 100 odd  building owners have volunteered for energy audit.  bee   said there are over 7,000 commercial buildings with a connected load  of 100 kW and above that are covered by the scheme. Energy economist  with  bee, Sanjay Seth said, "Till now we  have star rated 100 day-use buildings and 20 buildings used by IT and  bpo  companies that operate during the night  also." We are a voice to you; you have been a support to us. Together we build journalism that is independent, credible and fearless. You can further help us by making a donation. This will mean a lot for our ability to bring you news, perspectives and analysis from the ground so that we can make change together.Comments are moderated and will be published only after the site moderator's approval. Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name. Selected comments may also be used in the 'Letters' section of the Down To Earth print edition.