  History in a boatA rock painting discovered in June is making Australian scholars rethink the country's history.

The painting discovered in Arnhem Land shows a sailing boat, and historians say it is the nation's oldest dated picture showing aboriginal people's first contact with the outside world.

Archaeologist Paul Tacon said there are telling signs it is a depiction of a Perahu--a boat popular in Indonesia and Malaysia around the 17th century. "One of the distinctive features is a tripod mast, another is a rectangular sail. And those are quite clear in this image," he said. Tacon said beeswax pellets stuck to the painting were dated back to the 1620s.

He also said there is clear evidence Macassars from Indonesia were sailing to north Australia to fish for trepang in the 1600s, much earlier than believed.A rock painting discovered in June is making Australian scholars rethink the country's history.The painting discovered in Arnhem Land shows a sailing boat, and historians say it is the nation's oldest dated picture showing aboriginal people's first contact with the outside world.

Archaeologist Paul Tacon said there are telling signs it is a depiction of a Perahu--a boat popular in Indonesia and Malaysia around the 17th century. "One of the distinctive features is a tripod mast, another is a rectangular sail. And those are quite clear in this image," he said. Tacon said beeswax pellets stuck to the painting were dated back to the 1620s.

He also said there is clear evidence Macassars from Indonesia were sailing to north Australia to fish for trepang in the 1600s, much earlier than believed.We are a voice to you; you have been a support to us. Together we build journalism that is independent, credible and fearless. You can further help us by making a donation. This will mean a lot for our ability to bring you news, perspectives and analysis from the ground so that we can make change together.Comments are moderated and will be published only after the site moderator's approval. Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name. Selected comments may also be used in the 'Letters' section of the Down To Earth print edition.