  India lost 31% of grasslands in a decadeIndia lost 31 per cent, or 5.65 million hectares (mha), of grassland area in a decade, showed data the Union government presented to the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD) during the ongoing 14th Conference of Parties (COP).
The total area under grasslands reduced to 12.3 mha from 18 mha between 2005 and 2015.
Grasslands in the Aravalli range in Rajasthan underwent severe degradation, read the report. Other states where land has been severely destroyed include Maharashtra, Karnataka, Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh, it added.
Loss of grazing land can be attributed to two kinds of drivers -- direct and indirect. Overgrazing, poor management and deforestation are the direct drivers and conversion of pastures into croplands through encroachment, diversion and allotment driven by increasing population pressure are the indirect drivers.
The country also lost around 19 per cent of its common lands during the same period, according to the report. The area under common lands decreased to 73.02 mha from around 90.5 mha between 2005 and 2015, it added.
Common lands include the grazing grounds, some forest land, ponds, rivers, and other areas that all members of a rural community can access and use. They provide food, water, fodder, firewood and livelihood to rural communities, while also helping recharge groundwater and maintain the land's ecological balance.
Around 4.74 mha of grazing land was diverted as agricultural land across the country. A lot of common land also met the same fate -- 29.11 mha of common land was diverted for croplands in the decade, added the report.
Industrialisation and conversion of common lands for non-agricultural purposes became a major cause for the decreasing size of common lands.
During the same period, area under cropland saw nearly an 18 per cent increase to 134.5 mha from 113.6 mha.
But even as these lands are being lost to agriculture to feed the growing population, it is worrying to note that their productivity has also declined. Productivity of at least 26 mha of land has decreased and of this, close to 0.8 mha was grazing land and 5.9 mha common lands.
Declining productivity of grasslands also means poor quality of fodder for livestock.India lost 31 per cent, or 5.65 million hectares (mha), of grassland area in a decade, showed data the Union government presented to the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD) during the ongoing 14th Conference of Parties (COP).The total area under grasslands reduced to 12.3 mha from 18 mha between 2005 and 2015.Grasslands in the Aravalli range in Rajasthan underwent severe degradation, read the report. Other states where land has been severely destroyed include Maharashtra, Karnataka, Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh, it added.Loss of grazing land can be attributed to two kinds of drivers -- direct and indirect. Overgrazing, poor management and deforestation are the direct drivers and conversion of pastures into croplands through encroachment, diversion and allotment driven by increasing population pressure are the indirect drivers.The country also lost around 19 per cent of its common lands during the same period, according to the report. The area under common lands decreased to 73.02 mha from around 90.5 mha between 2005 and 2015, it added.Common lands include the grazing grounds, some forest land, ponds, rivers, and other areas that all members of a rural community can access and use. They provide food, water, fodder, firewood and livelihood to rural communities, while also helping recharge groundwater and maintain the land's ecological balance.Around 4.74 mha of grazing land was diverted as agricultural land across the country. A lot of common land also met the same fate -- 29.11 mha of common land was diverted for croplands in the decade, added the report.Industrialisation and conversion of common lands for non-agricultural purposes became a major cause for the decreasing size of common lands.During the same period, area under cropland saw nearly an 18 per cent increase to 134.5 mha from 113.6 mha.But even as these lands are being lost to agriculture to feed the growing population, it is worrying to note that their productivity has also declined. Productivity of at least 26 mha of land has decreased and of this, close to 0.8 mha was grazing land and 5.9 mha common lands.Declining productivity of grasslands also means poor quality of fodder for livestock.We are a voice to you; you have been a support to us. Together we build journalism that is independent, credible and fearless. You can further help us by making a donation. This will mean a lot for our ability to bring you news, perspectives and analysis from the ground so that we can make change together. India Environment Portal Resources : 

Land restoration for achieving the Sustainable Development Goals

Realising the carbon benefits of sustainable land management practices: guidelines for estimation of soil organic carbon in the context of land degradation neutrality planning and monitoring

Forests and trees: At the heart of land degradation neutrality

Desertification and land degradation atlas of selected districts of India: Volume- 2


Comments are moderated and will be published only after the site moderator's approval. Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name. Selected comments may also be used in the 'Letters' section of the Down To Earth print edition.