  King's waresIt comes with a green crest and many call it the king of vegetables. So how can the royal vegetable be genetically modified? That was the message of a Brinjal Festival in Hyderabad on March 8 . Did you know that the vegetable has 1,200 varietie-- we aren't talking of the genetically modified imposters here. More than 150 of these varieties were on display. Visitors, lined up at the food stalls where various lip-smacking dishes made from brinjals were on offer. "I don't think the government should promote sales of genetically modified brinjals," M Rekha, a homemaker told the daily The Hindu. The event was organized by the non-profits Centre for Sustainable Agriculture, AID India, Deccan Development Society and Chetana Organic. "Invitations were send to agriculture universities and horticulture and agriculture departments, but none of them sent representatives," said G V Ramanjaneyulu, director, Centre for Sustainable Agriculture. OuaIt comes with a green crest and many call it the king of vegetables. So how can the royal vegetable be genetically modified? That was the message of a Brinjal Festival in Hyderabad on March 8 . Did you know that the vegetable has 1,200 varietie-- we aren't talking of the genetically modified imposters here. More than 150 of these varieties were on display. Visitors, lined up at the food stalls where various lip-smacking dishes made from brinjals were on offer. "I don't think the government should promote sales of genetically modified brinjals," M Rekha, a homemaker told the daily The Hindu. The event was organized by the non-profits Centre for Sustainable Agriculture, AID India, Deccan Development Society and Chetana Organic. "Invitations were send to agriculture universities and horticulture and agriculture departments, but none of them sent representatives," said G V Ramanjaneyulu, director, Centre for Sustainable Agriculture. OuaWe are a voice to you; you have been a support to us. Together we build journalism that is independent, credible and fearless. You can further help us by making a donation. This will mean a lot for our ability to bring you news, perspectives and analysis from the ground so that we can make change together.Comments are moderated and will be published only after the site moderator's approval. Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name. Selected comments may also be used in the 'Letters' section of the Down To Earth print edition.