LIVESTOCK-U.S. hog futures advance for second day; cattle edge higher3 Min ReadCHICAGO, Feb 7 (Reuters) - U.S. lean hog futures closed higher on Friday for a second session on follow-through buying after Thursday's limit-up close and reminders of stepped-up Chinese demand for U.S. pork, traders said. Benchmark April lean hog futures on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME) settled up 1.375 cents at 66.250 cents per pound. The market continued to react to comments from a Tyson Foods Inc executive about surging pork demand from China, where an outbreak of African swine fever has devastated the Chinese hog herd, tightening pork supplies. Tyson Chief Executive Noel White told analysts on a conference call Thursday that the company's first-quarter orders to China were up nearly 600% from a year earlier. Several traders cautioned that year-ago pork sales to China likely were relatively small. Also, CME lean hog futures were seen as oversold and primed for a rebound after the April contract tumbled 16% last week. "The market's reaction to the Tyson comments was ridiculous. However, I don't think we are going to going to go back down," said Rich Nelson, chief strategist for Allendale Inc. "The Tyson comment reminded the trade that there is a good build-up in pork exports for this year," Nelson said. CME lean hog futures traded under expanded limits on Friday but limits for Monday's session will revert to the standard 3.0 cents per pound, the exchange said. Live cattle futures closed marginally higher, following the strength in lean hogs, even as cash cattle traded in Kansas and Texas at $121 per cwt, down from $122 last week, traders said. The CME benchmark April live cattle futures contract settled up 0.050 cent at 119.800 cents per pound. Front-month February rose 0.200 cent to close at 121.325 cents. CME March feeder cattle futures fell 0.700 cent to end at 135.200 cents per pound. The wholesale choice boxed beef cutout value fell 81 cents to $210.12 per cwt on Friday while select cuts tumbled $2.07, to $203.89 per cwt, the U.S. Department of Agriculture said. (Reporting by Julie Ingwersen; editing by Grant McCool)All quotes delayed a minimum of 15 minutes. See here for a complete list of exchanges and delays.(c) 2020 Reuters. All Rights Reserved.