  Millions of birds killed annually in southern Europe during olive harvest, says studyA new study has claimed that millions of birds are killed every winter in southern Europe during the harvesting of olives because of modern harvesting technologies being used, according to a report in the British media.
The study says the birds "are vacuumed out of trees and killed each year." It explains that millions of birds from northern and western Europe fly to the southern parts of the continent like Andalusia in Spain, Portugal, southern France and Italy at the start of winter each year.
They roost at night in olive bushes. That is also the time of harvesting olives, with the harvest lasting from October to January.
The harvest takes place at night since the cooler temperatures help preserve the olives' aromatic flavours.
The report describes how, when the machines "start stripping the olive trees of their fruits, they produce light which disorient the birds, who then get sucked into them."
The numbers of dead birds are unbelievable. The report notes that in Andalusia, 2.6 million birds are killed by harvesting tractors every winter. The species include robins, greenfinches, warblers and wagtails.  
In Portugal, 96,000 birds die every winter as a result of the farming technique. The numbers in Southern France and Italy are not known.
There are as many as 100 dead birds in each harvest trailer, according to the research.
The report quoted the lead author of the research as saying that if the machines are used during the day, they would not disorient and kill the birds.     
Top commentators on Indian agriculture and wildlife tweeted their concern on the report.

96,000 birds die every year in #Portugal alone during #olive harvest. Bird population has declined sharply in Europe as a result. And yet these intensive farming practices fail to evoke any outrage. Shocking silence. @TonyJuniper @foeeurope @fmlappe https://t.co/wUXx8mo0wq
-- Devinder Sharma (@Devinder_Sharma) May 20, 2019

Another way in which mindless human greed consumes nature. Collateral damage. Millions of songbirds vacuumed to death every year during Mediterranean olive harvest | The Independent https://t.co/9wxzwO1vxG
-- Vivek Menon (@vivek4wild) May 21, 2019


While authorities in Andalusia have recommended a stop to the practice, a legislation is needed to permanently stop it. Portugal, France and Italy's opinion in the matter is not knownA new study has claimed that millions of birds are killed every winter in southern Europe during the harvesting of olives because of modern harvesting technologies being used, according to a report in the British media.The study says the birds "are vacuumed out of trees and killed each year." It explains that millions of birds from northern and western Europe fly to the southern parts of the continent like Andalusia in Spain, Portugal, southern France and Italy at the start of winter each year.They roost at night in olive bushes. That is also the time of harvesting olives, with the harvest lasting from October to January.The harvest takes place at night since the cooler temperatures help preserve the olives' aromatic flavours.The report describes how, when the machines "start stripping the olive trees of their fruits, they produce light which disorient the birds, who then get sucked into them."The numbers of dead birds are unbelievable. The report notes that in Andalusia, 2.6 million birds are killed by harvesting tractors every winter. The species include robins, greenfinches, warblers and wagtails.  In Portugal, 96,000 birds die every winter as a result of the farming technique. The numbers in Southern France and Italy are not known.There are as many as 100 dead birds in each harvest trailer, according to the research.The report quoted the lead author of the research as saying that if the machines are used during the day, they would not disorient and kill the birds.     Top commentators on Indian agriculture and wildlife tweeted their concern on the report.96,000 birds die every year in #Portugal alone during #olive harvest. Bird population has declined sharply in Europe as a result. And yet these intensive farming practices fail to evoke any outrage. Shocking silence. @TonyJuniper @foeeurope @fmlappe https://t.co/wUXx8mo0wqAnother way in which mindless human greed consumes nature. Collateral damage. Millions of songbirds vacuumed to death every year during Mediterranean olive harvest | The Independent https://t.co/9wxzwO1vxGWhile authorities in Andalusia have recommended a stop to the practice, a legislation is needed to permanently stop it. Portugal, France and Italy's opinion in the matter is not knownWe are a voice to you; you have been a support to us. Together we build journalism that is independent, credible and fearless. You can further help us by making a donation. This will mean a lot for our ability to bring you news, perspectives and analysis from the ground so that we can make change together.Comments are moderated and will be published only after the site moderator's approval. Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name. Selected comments may also be used in the 'Letters' section of the Down To Earth print edition.