  Recession hits carbon trade Indian companies wait for cer price to rise 

COMPANIES  in India that hoped to profit by investing in technologies that minimize carbon emissions are holding on to their carbon credits. The 
value of these credits or certified emission reduction units (cers) has fallen steeply world over.   

In EU, for instance, the price of one  cer  has fallen from  31 to  nine between January and now. Carbon credits, 
created by carbon emission reduction, are  sold by companies in developing countries to those in developed countries. Each  cer  is worth one tonne reduced carbon emission and can be traded in the international market under a UN mandate. 
  

It is the European countries that usually buy carbon credits as they need to cut carbon emissions eight per cent below 1990 levels by 2012 under 
the international climate treaty, Kyoto Protocol. But the Indian companies are not selling. They are sitting on 63 million  cers as the market is bearish. "The prices are low because of recession. But the situation is not alarming. One should 
worry if the price falls below  eight," said Pamposh Bhatt, a director with  gtz  German Technical Cooperation,  an 
international development agency. Archak Pattnaik of  tuv-nord,  an international company that  certifies  cdm ( clean development mechanism, to minimize carbon emissions) projects, also said the fall in prices is a "temporary 
phenomenon".  

The carbon trade has been driven  further down by financial institutions that have withdrawn from carbon trading. For example, Lehman Brothers, 
the US-based non-banking financial institution, closed down its carbon desk after it announced bankruptcy.   

To arrest further fall in prices, the International Energy Agency (iea), the intergovernmental panel for promoting 
global energy security, has appealed to governments to take necessary steps. Low  cer  prices coupled with cheap 
coal and oil could affect investments in renewable energy,  iea  said.   

But those dealing in  cdm  projects said market forces, not governments, should determine  cer  prices. Bhatt said  cer  demand might increase if more countries commit themselves to 
carbon emission reductions under Kyoto protocol. "But if prices continue to fall, industrialized countries will need to ensure efforts and resources 
of so many countries that went into nurturing the carbon market over the past 10 years do not go waste," Bhatt said.     We are a voice to you; you have been a support to us. Together we build journalism that is independent, credible and fearless. You can further help us by making a donation. This will mean a lot for our ability to bring you news, perspectives and analysis from the ground so that we can make change together.Comments are moderated and will be published only after the site moderator's approval. Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name. Selected comments may also be used in the 'Letters' section of the Down To Earth print edition.