  Regional cooperation can improve food securityBhutan Bank's Dil Bahadur Rahut and P A Samaratunga from Colombo's Institute of Policy Studies were in New Delhi 
recently to discuss food security at a conference of South Asian countries. They spoke to Savvy Soumya Misra on the food crisis in their 
respective countries

On food security  Farmland in Bhutan is fragmented. We cannot use heavy machinery like tractors as farms are on hilly terrain. Most 
farmers grow just enough to feed their families; the food stocks run out by April. Investment in agricultural research and development has also 
decreased. 
On ensuring adequate food supply Bhutan imports most of its food and heavily depends on India. To ensure steady supplies through 
import, we need to increase our export (base). There is a huge potential for growing apples and oranges. We can grow mushrooms that are in 
demand in Japan.Medicinal herbs found in the Himalaya can also be grown and exported. The government needs to explore these possibilities. 
It should  also promote handicraft. 
On increasing agricultural yield  There is no land available to expand cultivation. So we need to increase productivity by using fertilizers, 
though farmers are not keen on it. The other option is to use high yielding grains. 

On food shortage Water scarcity is a major problem in Sri Lanka as we have exhausted our freshwater resources. Agriculture now 
solely depends on rains; arable land remains fallow as water for irrigation is not available. The crop cycle is now restricted to two yields a year. 
Agricultural research and development have decreased in the past 30 years and agricultural growth is stagnant.
On the way out It is not feasible to expand the existing irrigation facilities. The government should improve efficiency through judicious 
use of water. Practices like flooding paddy fields need to be stopped. Though Sri Lanka imports food from India, the two countries do not have 
technical collaborations. This has to be remedied.
On increasing agricultural yield  There should be investments in agricultural research to increase yields. Less water intensive agricultural 
practices should be adopted. Getting crop technology right is as important as using the right irrigation method.  We are a voice to you; you have been a support to us. Together we build journalism that is independent, credible and fearless. You can further help us by making a donation. This will mean a lot for our ability to bring you news, perspectives and analysis from the ground so that we can make change together.Comments are moderated and will be published only after the site moderator's approval. Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name. Selected comments may also be used in the 'Letters' section of the Down To Earth print edition.