  SC okays Monsanto’s patent claim over Bt cottonThe Supreme Court, while reversing a Delhi high court judgment, on January 8, 2019, allowed agri-business giant Monsanto to claim patent on its genetically modified (GM) cotton seeds.
In April, 2018, the Delhi high court had ruled Monsanto's patent over Bt cotton seeds as invalid. In the verdict, the two-judge bench headed by Justice S Ravindra Bhat, had said some items such as seeds, animals and plants cannot be patented under Indian laws.
In 2015, Monsanto had gone to court after its licensee Nuziveedu Seeds Ltd (NSL), an Indian seed company, said Indian Patent Law doesn't allow GM seeds any patent cover. The Delhi high court had concurred with NSL then. But on Tuesday, the two-judge SC bench headed by Justice Rohinton F Nariman allowed it.
This SC judgment came as relief for the agri-business company that was recently acquired by German agribusiness chemical giant Byer AG for $66 billion.
Monsanto was earlier affected by the Indian government cutting royalty on GM Bollgard 2 cotton seeds from Rs 49 to Rs 39 per 450-gm pack. More than 50 million packs of GM seeds are sold in India every year.The Supreme Court, while reversing a Delhi high court judgment, on January 8, 2019, allowed agri-business giant Monsanto to claim patent on its genetically modified (GM) cotton seeds.In April, 2018, the Delhi high court had ruled Monsanto's patent over Bt cotton seeds as invalid. In the verdict, the two-judge bench headed by Justice S Ravindra Bhat, had said some items such as seeds, animals and plants cannot be patented under Indian laws.In 2015, Monsanto had gone to court after its licensee Nuziveedu Seeds Ltd (NSL), an Indian seed company, said Indian Patent Law doesn't allow GM seeds any patent cover. The Delhi high court had concurred with NSL then. But on Tuesday, the two-judge SC bench headed by Justice Rohinton F Nariman allowed it.This SC judgment came as relief for the agri-business company that was recently acquired by German agribusiness chemical giant Byer AG for $66 billion.Monsanto was earlier affected by the Indian government cutting royalty on GM Bollgard 2 cotton seeds from Rs 49 to Rs 39 per 450-gm pack. More than 50 million packs of GM seeds are sold in India every year.We are a voice to you; you have been a support to us. Together we build journalism that is independent, credible and fearless. You can further help us by making a donation. This will mean a lot for our ability to bring you news, perspectives and analysis from the ground so that we can make change together.Comments are moderated and will be published only after the site moderator's approval. Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name. Selected comments may also be used in the 'Letters' section of the Down To Earth print edition.