Swiss stocks - Factors to watch on January 223 Min ReadBERLIN/ZURICH, Jan 22 (Reuters) - The Swiss blue-chip SMI was seen opening 0.3% higher at 10,915 points on Wednesday, according to premarket indications by bank Julius Baer. Here are some of the main factors that may affect Swiss stocks: The company said it had outperformed the global chocolate industry after its sales volumes rose 8.2% in the three months to Nov. 30 helped by favourable comparables and the recently acquired Russian company Inforum. For more news, click on Chief Executive Peter Voser said the Swiss engineering company was more positive about the global economy than it was six months ago, adding it was seeing a recovery in some areas like automotive. For more news, click on French telecoms and media group Iliad has filed a request to have a 5G network-sharing agreement between Italian phone carriers Fastweb, which is owned by Swisscom, and Wind Tre annulled, a legal document and a source said. The last decade was the worst on record for economic losses from natural disasters, amounting to $3 trillion - over a trillion more than the previous decade, insurance broker Aon said. * Bobst Group said it was expecting 2020 sales to be around 6% lower than in the previous year. * Wisekey International Holding reported 2019 revenues of $24.5 million and said it achieved a net profit. * Basilea announces an agreement for a Fides-03 study with derazantinib In gastric cancer * Valora names three new board members * Swiss Prime Site proposes Ton Buechner as its new chairman. * Partners Group  said it is acquiring European renewable energy developer VSB Group * Zur Rose Group reports FY revenue up 30.1% to SFr1.57 Billion. BERNER KANTONALBANK - Moody's downgrades long-term deposit rating to "Aa2" from "Aa1" LOGITECH INTERNATIONAL - Credit Suisse raises price target to 49 SFr from 46 SFr ROCHE - Jefferies raises target price to 370 SFr from 345 SFr SWISS RE - Jefferies cuts target price to 98 SFr from 99 SFr LINDT & SPRUENGLI - Berenberg raises to buy From hold, raises target price to SFr9300 from SFr7600 NESTLE - Berenberg raises target price to SFr122 from SFr115 * No major Swiss economic data scheduled (Reporting by Zurich newsroom and Berlin Speed Desk)All quotes delayed a minimum of 15 minutes. See here for a complete list of exchanges and delays.(c) 2020 Reuters. All Rights Reserved.