Adaptation Stellar Lumens and Cardano (ADA) as means of payment for 1.65 million hotels worldwideThe distribution and acceptance of cryptocurrencies depends largely on their actual purpose in the real world. The market leader Bitcoin can already be used on countless platforms and businesses. The native tokens XLM and ADA also find their way into an innovative hotel booking platform.The online travel site Travala.com announced yesterday that the cryptocurrencies Cardano (ADA) and Stellar Lumens (XLM) can now be used to pay for hotel bookings. Cardano was added to the platform on 29 October 2019 and Stellar Lumens on 30 October 2019. Travala describes this step as a win-win situation for all parties involved.The website's portfolio includes more than 1.65 million hotels in over 230 countries worldwide. Travala offers up to 40% lower prices than its competitors. In addition, individuals as well as companies using ADA or XLM to pay for the hotel currently receive 5% of the booking value in the respective cryptocurrency as a cashback credited to their wallet until November 7, 2019.Matthew Luczynski, CEO and founder of Travala.com, praises the two projects and describes them:As one of the leading open networks for storing and moving money, we're excited to add Stellar (XLM) as a preferred payment option to help drive the further adoption of cryptocurrencies.Adding ADA as a payment option is envisaged to further drive the use of ADA for travel-related services and promote Travala.com among the ADA community who can now book accommodation globally via the Travala.com platform.Travala also partnered with Komod in October to establish the Komodo Coin as another payment option on the platform. Travala is also a partner of Binance's decentralized exchange and cooperates with the Kucoin cryptocurrency exchange. Travala is also a sponsor of blockchain events such as Korea Blockchain Week 2019.The advantage of cryptocurrencies over traditional payment options as well as the actual potential of decentralized systems is being recognized, researched and used by more and more companies. However, cryptocurrencies do not only function as a means of payment, but can also represent highly complex problems in the block chain.Cardano recently announced a collaboration with New Balance to verify products along the value chain. The aim is to verify the authenticity of branded products, especially expensive shoes from a collector's collection. Users can use their smartphone to scan a QR code on the product's packaging. Finally, all stored information such as country of origin, price and the last delivery stations are displayed.Last Updated on 31 October, 2019