Big News Pay on Pornhub with Tether by using TRON WalletThe billion-user platform Pornhub announced a few hours ago via the company blog that a new payment option with the cryptocurrency Tether (USDT) is now available. Pornhub also advises users to download the TRONlink Wallet to take advantage of the additional privacy features.Already in March last year TRON entered into a partnership with Tether to be able to issue USDT via the TRON blockchain. This makes the TRC20-based Tether (USDT) interoperable with all TRON-based protocols and distributed applications and enables the direct exchange via the TRON blockchain.As Pornhub writes, there are no transaction fees when paying with Tether. In addition, transfers are processed in a matter of seconds, making the use of Tether significantly faster and cheaper than the options previously offered on the platform. Justin Sun, founder of TRON, writes on Twitter that this step will help all affected victims of centralized platforms to benefit from a free decentralized financial system:If you're on @Pornhub, stop what you're doing. USDT is now an option for models on Pornhub! Pornhub is using USDT-TRON to support models seeking payment solutions. This is a brilliant way to support the victims of centralized payment platforms like PayPal.Pornhub generates more than 2.7 billion page views per month and more than 30 billion page views per year according to similarweb.com data, so this indirect advertising for TRON can support TRX adoption. Less than 2 months ago, the payment giant PayPal was abruptly dropped as a possible payment option due to new laws in the United States.Pornhub is part of the Mindgeek network, which operates a website conglomerate based in Luxembourg and is one of the largest conglomerates in the world. At the time Pornhub was shocked by this decision and wrote:We are shocked by PayPal's decision to stop paying out to over a hundred thousand artists who make a living from it.At the time, Pornhub advised to use payment options such as direct bank transfer, which, however, entail relatively high transaction fees. Alternatively, it was recommended to use the cryptocurrency Verge, which offers anonymous, fast and inexpensive payments. Verge entered into a paid partnership with Pornhub in 2018 and has since been offered as a possible payment option on the platform.However, the latest official figures from Pornhub show that less than 1% of subscribers have so far used the option of paying with cryptocurrencies. TRON's native cryptocurrency, TRX, has been available as a possible payment option on Pornhub since mid-2018. Pornhub vice president said at the time that cryptocurrencies have a distinct advantage over centralized systems:Decentralized payment systems are becoming increasingly popular, and the introduction of cryptocurrencies is exploding across a broad economic spectrum. Today, cryptocurrencies are particularly viable in the adult entertainment industry because they are privacy-centric and involve more anonymity than traditional options.The price of TRX followed the current market trend and recorded a significant loss of - 3.39% to USD 0.0164.Follow us on Facebook and Twitter and don't miss any hot news anymore! Do you like our price indices?Last Updated on 23 January, 2020