Binance Europe’s Mariana Gospodinova Joins Barcelona Trading ConferenceThe Barcelona Trading Conference (BTC) is one of the most hotly anticipated events of the summer and will be here in less than two months. The string of big names joining the conference's panels and workshops continues to grow, this time with the addition of Binance Europe's Mariana Gospodinova.The Barcelona Trading Conference will be held at the International Convention Center, between July 10-11. The event will be hosted by Finance Magnates, helping serve as a gathering and meeting point for the industry's marquee executives and key players.Discover the Barcelona Trading Conference - A Top Tier Crypto Trading EventMs. Gospodinova is the acting COO of Binance Europe, which oversees trading for one of the world's largest crypto exchanges. She is highly experienced in the crypto space, making her perspective and insight extremely valuable for attendees.She will be featured on one of the event's marquee panel sessions, 'Building Blocks of Institutional Adoption.'Suggested articlesSpectre.ai Launches World's First Hyper-API and Mobile App!Go to article >>Spectre.ai Launches World's First Hyper-API and Mobile App!Go to article >>While the long crypto winter cools off retail interest, the institutional trading eco-system is taking form. Veteran market participants will shed light on their role in creating the institutional crypto market, addressing key opportunities and main challenges.Join Ms. Gospodinova, along with five other industry leaders, to delve into a wide range of trends facing the crypto markets. She will be focusing on institutional adoption among other leading trends.This includes whether lessons can be distilled from retail trading models and how better technology can hasten market adoption. Additionally, the veteran panel will also be addressing the pressing needs that must be handled before big money managers can finally invest in digital assets.Perhaps of greatest importance is the role regulatory authorities have and will continue to play in the institutional level of crypto trading. Prospective attendees are encouraged to familiarize themselves with the session as well as the overall event's agenda by accessing the following link.This is one session you do not want to miss. Sign up for your seat at the Barcelona Trading Conference today!