Blockstream CEO This is why TRON will overtake EthereumThe crypto community is currently discussing the spike in BTC price beyond the 10,000 mark, but also the approach the CEO of TRON had with some important crypto personalities. One of these personalities is Blocktream CEO Adam Back.The discussion seems to have started on February 7, 2020, when Back commented on a tweet from Udi Wertheimer (@udiWertheimer) about the advantages of TRON over Ethereum. Back stated that TRON is, in fact, superior to Ethereum and that the Tron Foundation has more resources, enough to buy Consensys, the application development studio for Ethereum. Then the Tron Foundation would "just have to replace eth2 with TRON".Blockstream's CEO was criticized hard over this statement. Different Twitter users pointed out that it is a different technology, but Back maintained his position and said:What's the difference between trx vs eth? Maybe people can explain, from the outside it looks very very similar. Even the newsflow marketing. Probably TRON is better at it, but eth/consensys did it earlier.Blockstream CSO Sam Mow wrote a tweet that could be an answer to these questions. Mow listed the advantages of TRON over Ethereum and in his list he said that security, blockchain speed and DeFi applications are better in TRON. He also referred to the dinner that TRON's CEO had with entrepreneur Warren Buffet.One day later, on February 8, Back and TRON's CEO met and agreed that TRON might move to the Blockstream liquid network supported by Bitcoin. Back and Sun posted a selfie on the social network Twitter and the debate was back in full swing.We have a plan. #Ethereum is over. Tron moving to #liquidnetwork on #bitcoin. Cc @udiWertheimer pic.twitter.com/XEuw11PQKX-- NVK (@nvk) February 8, 2020Responses to the selfie came from all sides of the crypto industry, but it were the Bitcoin's so-called maximalists who were most surprised by the meeting. BullBitcoin CEO Francis Puliot simply wrote "What. The actual. Fuck." However, there are still doubts as to whether this is not another marketing strategy by Justin Sun.Some users even speculated that this is a strategy to "troll" Ethereum co-creator Vitalik Buterin. Another personality who met with Sun is podcaster Peter McCormack. His tweets seem to confirm the theory that it's all part of a marketing strategy. The host of "What Bitcoin Did" invited Sun to his show and analyst Luke Martin congratulated him by suggesting that the TRON CEO could be the "real" Satoshi.My exclusive interview with @justinsuntron is now available. We discuss:- Tron's value proposition - Why Tron is an #ethereum killer - Why you should buy TronIs this true @VitalikButerin?-- Peter McCormack (@PeterMcCormack) February 9, 2020In an recent interview with Messari, TRON's CEO spoke about TRON's plans to dominate the DeFi market. Sun also stated that there has been a shift in the crypto industry and, because of this, it is Asia that is making the most progress in blockchain and crypto industry. TRON's CEO stated:Before it was Ethereum dominated. Right now you can see Asian player like TRON and others gaining in this market. I think think this is actually a good sign of globalization [...]. So we gonna see the companies with different backgrounds compete with each other.The price of TRX is at $0.0228, at the time of publication and gained 1.16% in the last 24 hours.Follow us on Facebook and Twitter and don't miss any hot news anymore! Do you like our price indices?Last Updated on 9 February, 2020