Brazilian Retail Chain Adds Crypto as a Payment OptionA Brazilian supermarket chain called Oasis Supermercados has added cryptocurrency as a payment option.The Rio de Janeiro-based supermarket operates two retail stores in the country and averages around $6.5 million in annual turnover. The chain employs 90 staff members and has trained all its 20 cash register employees to accept payment in cryptocurrencies.Discover iFX EXPO, Your Gateway to Asian Markets!According to Douglas Andrade, one of the managers of the chain, the supermarket has added support for three cryptocurrencies - Bitcoin, Bitcoin Cash, and Litecoin.Suggested articlesSpectre.ai Launches World's First Hyper-API and Mobile App!Go to article >>Spectre.ai Launches World's First Hyper-API and Mobile App!Go to article >>Andrade also explained that the cryptocurrency payments can be easily done and will not be a complicated process. Mentioning the process, he said: "[It is] too easy. It is the same as the payment by [any] credit card. The client says which cryptocurrency he wants to pay [with], the operator types in reais and the system already converts to that crypto. Then just get the QR code and you're done."Oasis Supermercados partnered with CoinWISE for the crypto payment gateway setup. The supermarket will convert the received crypto in fiats every three days.Though cryptocurrencies are significantly popular in Brazil, the country's authorities still keep an eye on the crypto deals due to the suspicion of tax evasion and money laundering. However, as the digital assets are not banned, more and more businesses are adding cryptocurrency support to attract tech-savvy customers.Earlier this year, Brazilian GBS Group's two public transportation companies - Brasil Sul and Viacao Garcia - stated accepting Bitcoin, Bitcoin Cash, and Litecoin as payment. Metro Brasilia, one of Rio de Janeiro subway system has also started accepting Bitcoin. Moreover, Technisa, a construction company in Brazil is even providing a discount of five percent to all clients paying in Bitcoin.