Breaking Samsung integrates TRON into the Keystore WalletA few days ago Justin Sun, founder of Tron, once again fired up the hype surrounding his project. He announced that Tron would partner with a 100 billion dollar company, CNF reported. Since then, there have been several guesses as to who the partner might be. The mystery seems to have been solved prematurely.It is true that Justin Sun himself has not yet spoken. However, Samsung has provided the decisive clue. As a release note on the Samsung Developers website reveals, Tron will be added to the Samsung Blockchain Keystore SDK v1.2.0.Thus, Samsung's Keystore Wallet will also support TRX transactions. In addition, integration with the SDK means that Tron programming interfaces (APIs) for TRX-based tokens and distributed applications (dApps) could soon be accessible to approximately 1 billion Samsung users worldwide. Furthermore, users of the wallet will be able to access the Tron blockchain via their smartphones.According to Scott WINk, who posted an alleged photo of the Galaxy S11 on Twitter, the Smasung Blockchain can manage Bitcoin (BTC), Ethereum (ETH), Klaytn (KLAY) and Tron (TRX) keystores.Erm..... @justinsuntron .... looks like i was right? @SamsungMobile #TRX & #WIN to the mooon  pic.twitter.com/cgRZNCwqh0-- Scott WINk Warrior (@sf10ydy) October 28, 2019The rumors of Tron's cooperation with Samsung were the most traded tip within the crypto community for the "$100 billion partnership" Sun announced. So for insiders, the news is not entirely surprising. In addition, Tron founder Justin Sun has long been known to be a guest speaker at the Samsung developer conference tomorrow, October 30th. Together with John Jun, Director of Content & Services for Samsung Electronics America, Sun will discuss how to bring the blockchain to the mass market.Surely Justin Sun will then make the news official and also announce some more details about the partnership with Samsung.As CNF has reported in recent weeks, TRON is currently making great progress. Last week the developers of the web browser Opera announced that after Bitcoin and Ethereum the browser will also integrate Tron (TRX) into its Crypto Wallet. It was also announced that the popular game EOS Knights will change from the EOS Blockchain to the Tron Blockchain with a sequel. Last but not least, Tron (TRX) was rated second best cryptocurrency project in China's CCID ranking yesterday.As part of the "Xi-Pump", Tron has recorded massive price gains in recent days. As a result, TRX has even displaced Stellar Lumens (XLM) from 10th place among the largest cryptocurrencies in terms of market capitalization. Within the top 10 by market capitalization, the Tron price is the second largest winner over the past 30 days (+56%). Only Bitcoin SV can report a higher price increase over the same period (+65%).Last Updated on 29 October, 2019