Cardano and VeChain adapt to customer needsThe demand for optimizing everyday processes continues to grow. In this field, Cardano and VeChain have played an important role. Both companies have grown enormously in recent months. The alliances they have forged, are profiled as possible solutions to everyday problems.Quanterall, Cardano's newest alliance, is a company developing blockchain technology. The company has developed an self-checkout prototype for shopping. The Cardano token, ADA, will be used for the prototype. The collaboration will focus on improving people's shopping experience.The self-checkout prototype developed by Quanterall offers a solution to an everyday problem. With their partnership with Cardano, they could make shopping as simple as entering the store and self-service using the smartphone and Quanterall application.The self-checkout process is simple, although a little long. It is necessary for the customer to enter the store and select the item they wish to purchase. Then, you must scan it with the Quanterall application. This will display a list of selected products that will be imported into the store system. The customer makes sure that the products are correct and selects the payment method.Transactions are made with Cardano (ADA). The system only requires the customer to scan a barcode. Then the customer has to wait for the payment to be confirmed by the point of sale (POS) device.Quanterall's Cardano solution can be used in stores and supermarkets, without the need for a credit or debit card. Cardano has also made other alliances that will allow people to verify the authenticity and quality of a product.The demand to simplify processes that involve everyday life has been recognized by the governments of the world. Even the European Union is considering launching its own digital coin. The most important problem for these governments is the simplification of payment procedures and the creation of a blockchain infrastructure that improves the processes that take place in a supply chain.Companies like Ripple and VeChain have moved quickly to meet that demand. VeChain, for example, announced a cooperation with the ASI Group and its partner DNVGL. The announcement was made during the China International Imort Expo (CIIE) 2019, in a region that is gradually becoming the epicenter of the most important events related to cryptocurrencies.The cooperation will aim to implement logistics solutions within the public blockchain VeChainThor. As reported by CNF, the project will be an intercontinental trade platform. In addition, it will make it possible to track the entire value chain.From the quality of the raw materials, the manufacturing process, the distribution to the supermarkets. The technology and alliances formed by VeChain on the one hand and Cardano on the other seem to be a prelude to the future.There, shopping in seconds, knowing the exact moment the product has arrived in a store, will be a reality.Below is the video in which you can see more details about Cardano's initiative with Quanterall.Last Updated on 10 November, 2019