Cardano Hoskinson suggests Stablecoin equivalent to Ethereum’s DAIAfter Cardano wrote several headlines at the World Economic Forum in Davos and gained new partners, the company continues with more exciting news. Via Twitter, Weiss Crypto Ratings wrote that Charles Hoskinson told the rating agency that IOHK wants to develop a version of Ethereum's Stablecoin DAI on Cardano. As Weiss Crypto Ratings further stated, Stablecoins, like DAI, do not have a central point of failure, which is a big advantage over centralized Stablecoins, like Tether (USDT) or USDC.We hear that @IOHK_Charles wants to build a version of DAI on Cardano. So far, #DAI is the only trustless #stablecoin in #crypto world, but there should be more. Stablecoins like DAI have no central point of failure, which is a BIG advantage over the likes of #USDT or #USDC.-- Weiss Crypto Ratings (@WeissCrypto) February 11, 2020Hoskinson responded to the tweet from Weiss Crypto Ratings, raising high expectations for all Cardano supporters. Although Hoskinson did not confirm that IOHK is working on an equivalent to DAI, he did not deny the news by declaring:If we do this, then it will blow everyone out of the water. I started in this space with stablecoins and we've been thinking about them for seven years.Asked by a Twitter user what benefit Cardano would derive from developing a Stablecoin similar to Ethereum's DAI, Hoskinson said:If the coin uses Ada as part of its Central Bank mechanism, it creates demand for the underlying asset.As Hoskinson describes, the creation of a DAI-like Stablecoin could significantly affect the value of ADA. Unlike Tether or USDC, which are covered by US dollars, the value of DAIs is backed by Ethereum (ETH); at least this was the case until the "multicollateral" DAI was introduced last November.Should Cardano introduce a similar decentralized Stablecoin, it could create a demand for ADA that would have a positive long-term impact on the price. However, as the tweet suggests, it is still only an idea. An implementation seems not to have started yet.According to CNF, the Shelley Incentivized Test Network (SIT) has already attracted over 15,200 active users, who have staked more than 11.35 billion ADAs. Currently, staking is available to those who have held their ADA in either of the two Cardano wallets, Yoroi or Daedalus, at the time of the snapshot on 29 November 2019.For Android users there is now another progress to report. Android users of Cardano's Yoroi wallet will now be able to stake their ADA via the mobile version of the wallet to receive rewards. iOS users will also be able to access this service once Apple has completed its review of the app and released the application for use, as Yoroi announced in a tweet. Yoroi Mobile for Android now supports staking (Shelley testnet)iOS app is under review by Apple. Will be released shortly!https://t.co/Y2JnOuyZVA-- Yoroi Wallet (@YoroiWallet) February 12, 2020Already yesterday a new version, 2.5.3, was released for Yoroi's desktop wallet, which will speed up the loading of the ADA account balance, include improved graphics and fix a wallet "transfer error" to the Daedalus ITN wallet.We released Yoroi Extension 2.5.3 (Shelley testnet only).- Wallet balance loading should be much faster- Improved reward graph- Fix "wallet transfer" for Daedalus ITN wallets pic.twitter.com/vlfpWj5bPM-- Yoroi Wallet (@YoroiWallet) February 11, 2020Follow us on Facebook and Twitter and don't miss any hot news anymore! Do you like our price indices?Last Updated on 12 February, 2020