Cardano community grows to 1 million users and will work to develop new use casesThe Cardano Foundation has reported on its achievements in 2019. The President of the Cardano Foundation, Nathan Kaiser, spoke about the growth in key sectors and the goals they are aiming to achieve in 2020. The goals are to create a solid regulatory basis, develop new use cases and achieve greater interoperability with other blockchain technologies and other cryptocurrencies.In a video published by the Cardano Foundation, Kaiser said that in 2019 the Foundation has focused on working towards a sustainable legal framework. The foundation focused on the further development of its legal and tax issues. Kaiser said that the Foundation has initiated more than 100 control measures and decisions and strengthened the council that manages the Cardano Foundation.On the other hand, Kaiser highlighted the Foundation's efforts to improve its relationship with the community. The President of the Cardano Foundation said that the Foundation's hard work has helped the community grow to 1 million people worldwide.Kaiser also mentioned the partners that the Cardano Foundation has been able to attract during 2019. Among them is Konfidio, a company that will enable Cardano to develop new use cases in supply chain, logistics, the Internet of Things (IoT) and identity management.Other important partners of the Cardano Foundation are Codi, a collaboration that allowed them to introduce a payment solution with ADA. In addition, the Foundation partnered with world-renowned educational institutions, such as the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, to promote educational initiatives.One of the Foundation's board members, Tamara Haasen, explained the importance of changing the perception of key investors and authorities. Haasen said that to achieve greater adoption, more support is needed from policymakers and legislators. In addition, the ecosystem must be united around blockchain technology. Hassen said:The Cardano Foundation is not only here to support solutions for Cardano, we are here to support the entire industry and this revolutionary technology. Our mission then is to help the blockchain reach its full potential.The Cardano Foundation board members emphasized the need to improve the communicatoin with key investors and authorities to encourage adoption and change the perception of the public. The Foundation's Vice President, Manmeet Singh, said that this will be a major goal for 2020. Singh stressed that Cardano has created important headlines and that Cardano's voice will grow in the media to bring Cardano's vision to a wider audience. The goal will be to achieve a solid and sustainable operating base for the future.As CNF reported, Cardano is close to launching the Haskell Shelley tesnet. In addition, Cardano has witnessed a successful launch of its Shelley Incentivized TesnetThe price of Cardano is at $ 0.0360 USD, at the time of publication, and has had losses of 4.94% in the last 24 hours.Below you can find the complete video of the Cardano Foundation:Follow us on Facebook and Twitter and don't miss any hot news anymore! Do you like our price indices?Last Updated on 9 January, 2020