Cardano will launch Haskell Shelley Testnet soonCharles Hoskinson caused a final sensation when he predicted that Cardano would replace Bitcoin as the market leader among cryptocurrency in the long term. This year, a large-scale advertising campaign will be launched, which is to decisively advance the adaptation. In addition to the incentive test network already launched, another test network is to be published in the near future.In the last AMA session (Ask-me-Anything) Charles Hoskinson thanked the community for their strong cooperation and the resulting further development of the ecosystem:It is overwhelming to see the massive participation of our community in Incentivized Testnet. This is a testament to the loyalty and pride of our supporters. We believe that we can start a revolution with what we have. Enormous growth can happen very quickly with just a small community.During the conversation, Hoskinson told the community that another test network called Haskell Shelly will be launched soon. So far, however, no official launch date has been published. The developers are also working on the integration of Adrestia, the Haskell Wallet Backend and the merging of both components with the Byron Reboot Node.The OBFT Fork is expected to take place at the end of January, but possibly not before February. If these milestones have been reached, Goguen will follow. Shelley describes the second development phase of the Cardano network, followed by Goguen. Goguen will prepare the network for decentralized applications, so that smart contracts can also be developed and executed on the Cardano Blockchain.Cardano is working closely with the Plutus team to ensure that dApps are written in Plutus and can easily migrate from the Mockchain to Cardano Mainnet. Hoskinson further describes that Cardano is developing a strategy to ensure interoperability with the Ethereum network :We believe that Marlowe, Plutus and the model we have chosen are superior to the EVM model. However, we have planned an Ethereum Interoperability Strategy. This will be announced later, but we will see it later this year.Goguen should enable financial and business experts to create smart contracts without any technical knowledge. Ultimately, Goguen should significantly expand the functionalities:In particular, the addition of a multi-currency ledger will further enhance the usefulness of Cardano and allow users to create new natively supported tokens. This will enable the creation of fungible and non-fungible tokens and will support the creation of new cryptocurrencies on Cardano as well as the tokenization of many types of digital and physical assets.On 16 December 2019, the Shelley Incentivized Testnet was successfully launched. Shortly after the launch, 240 registered stake pools were counted and over 7.5 billion ADAs (equivalent to a value of almost 256 million USD) were staked. By the end of the year, 1,000 registered stake pools are expected to be reached, with 246 stake pools registered and 177 active at the time of writing.The project is making great progress and is one of the most complex projects on the market. Nevertheless, it remains to be seen whether the ambitious goals can be achieved in 2020. The price of ADA follows the current market trend and has increased by 2.99% to USD 0.036.Follow us on Facebook and Twitter and don't miss any hot news anymore! Do you like our price indices?Last Updated on 7 January, 2020