EOS Dominates China’s 34 Blockchain Project Ranking ListChina's Center for Information and Industry Development (CCID), working under the country's Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, has recently published the eighth issue of its Global Public Blockchain Technology Assessment Index (GPBTAI). The CCID has ranked 34 blockchain projects this time, an addition of one project - Ontology - to the last issue.EOS triumphed the list for the seventh consecutive time followed by Vitalik Buterin's Ethereum. Though in terms of applicability, the smart-contract leader has no match (with a score of 28.8), it lags behind EOS in the basic-tech index.Discover iFX EXPO, Your Gateway to Asian Markets!The CCID first published its ranking this year in May, and since then, has been updating the list every month. Although the details of the ranking process are not known, the agency uses three indices - basic-tech, applicability, and creativity - to come up with an overall score.Suggested articlesSpectre.ai Launches World's First Hyper-API and Mobile App!Go to article >>Spectre.ai Launches World's First Hyper-API and Mobile App!Go to article >>It is to be noted that the original cryptocurrency - Bitcoin - is nowhere near the top and lingers around the midway at the 18th position."EOS topped the list with a total score of 156.1 points. Ethereum ranked second, with an assessment index of 136.4. The two indexes are still the lead at the very top," the official press release stated. "GXchain replaced BitShares in third place with a score of 117.5 in this assessment, while BitShare fell by five in the current evaluation, ranking eighth. Komodo, Ontology, NULS, Nebulas, BitShares, NEO, and Steem shared the fourth through 10th spots. Bitcoin evaluation index stayed in the middle of the list with a score of 96.1, ranking 18th."Jun Li-founded Ontology, which has made its debut to the CCID list, is a customizable Chinese public blockchain project. According to the CCID, Ontology is "based on the new VBFT consensus algorithm" and its "public chain can issue blocks on demand to achieve second-level confirmation of transactions.""Its main network was launched in June 2018. In this assessment, Ontology has outstanding performance in basic technology and application, with a composite index of 112.6, ranking 4th in the list," the CCID noted.