Following Bitcoin and Ethereum Opera now also supports TRONThe adaptation of cryptocurrencies is significantly responsible for its distribution and acceptance worldwide. TRON has set itself the goal of providing a decentralized Internet in which users regain power over their personal data. The new cooperation with Opera gives millions of people access to TRON and its blockchain technology.Opera is one of the world's largest browsers and currently has more than 350 million active users. The browser has a crypto wallet that supports the cryptocurrencies Bitcoin and Ethereum. Through a new cooperation with TRON, the developers have created an interface that now also supports TRX.Thus 350 million users can send and receive TRX directly in Opera, as well as access TRON dApps, which are listed in the integrated dApps Store. TRON is thus the third cryptocurrency supported by Opera's Browser Wallet.Source: https://medium.com/@Tronfoundation/opera-browser-adds-tron-wallet-support-700dbb13fdf3This step will above all facilitate access to decentralised applications. The TRON ecosystem provides an environment for the development and deployment of dApps and blockchain-based games.As we reported earlier, the blockchain game Knights Story, which was previously based on the EOS blockchain, has moved to the TRON blockchain. This development shows that the TRON blockchain offers great potential to further advance the adaptation of cryptocurrencies and decentralized applications.Another new feature is that Opera now also supports direct payments with Bitcoin. This allows Bitcoin to be directly received and sent in the Android app.The TRON Foundation will use the reach of Opera, BitTorrent and TRON to deliver and promote the dApps to millions of active users in over 120 countries. Justin Sun, CEO of TRON and BitTorrent, says this collaboration is another milestone for the TRON community:Opera is one of the most important software companies in the world. They are bringing security, privacy, and dynamic cryptocurrency capabilities to hundreds of millions of users. We are proud to connect the largest, active blockchain ecosystem to the best web browser ever built.In addition to Opera News, TRON was able to record some other positive news this week:The price of TRX is not responding to this news due to the current market situation and is down 4.73% to $0.0149.Last Updated on 23 October, 2019