Game developer Biscuit migrates from EOS to Ethereum competitor TRONTo this day, blockchain games are faced with a great challenge, which developers in particular are experiencing in the area of scalability. Biscuit wants to eliminate this challenge through its new partnership with TRON. With the help of the Tron Blockchain, the performance of the games is to be improved so that the gaming experience does not differ from classic games and applications.Furthermore, the cooperation will concentrate on the promotion of the use of cryptocurrencies and the development of high range dApps in the TRON network. The TRON Foundation will work closely with Biscuit as a strategic investor.The #1 blockchain game is migrating to #TRON! Knight Story, by Biscuit, topped the charts from 2018-2019 and is now coming back with new gameplay upgrades. Watch the trailer and read more about the partnership here:https://t.co/G37JMf6A3x pic.twitter.com/6imbao6f5w-- TRON Foundation (@Tronfoundation) October 21, 2019Knight Story is one of the biggest games (in terms of active users) in the blockchain sector. Knight Story has been at the forefront of both daily active users and transaction volume since 2018. The TRON Foundation states that, according to dapp.review, Knight Story generates more than 6,000 active players a day and more than USD 20,000 in revenue.According to the official announcement, Biscuit has decided to move from EOS to TRON for the following reasons:Jay Lee, CEO of Biscuit, describes that the collaboration is intended to reach a wider audience:We are very excited to partner with TRON and we're eager to see Knight Story thrive on the TRON network. This collaboration will help us to realize Biscuit's mission and continue to innovate games using blockchain technology.Through the new partnership and a fully packed catalogue of measures, Knight Story should break further records. In December a new version will be released, which was created with the TRON Blockchain. The game will be available for download on most iOS and Android devices. Furthermore the economy within the game will be revised, as it will be based on TRX- and TRC-based tokens (including NFTs) from now on.TRON will not only support Biscuit in the development of the game, but also financially through the TRON Arcade Fund. The TRON Arcade Fund is a special fund launched by TRON in November last year with a capital of $100 million to support blockchain-based games.TRON will also promote Knight Story through other platforms such as BitTorrent and Opera. With this, the foundation wants to make Knight Story accessible to millions of people and ensure a broad growth of the TRON ecosystem. Justin Sun, CEO of TRON & BitTorrent, describes that there has never been a decentralized game with greater potential:There has never been a decentralized game of this scale before. Biscuit's successful rollout of blockchain gaming for mainstream audiences marks a turning point for the space.It remains to be seen what further progress we will see from this project in the near future. Meanwhile, the TRX price is unimpressed and continues to show a sideways trend within the last 24 hours (+0.39%).Last Updated on 22 October, 2019