Global Digital Finance’s Abdul Haseeb Joins London Summit 2019With just under three weeks to go until London Summit 2019, everyone is finalizing their schedules. This includes the addition of leading speakers, such as Abdul Haseeb, Board Member of Global Digital Finance.Held at the Old Billingsgate on November 12-13, the summit has managed to bring in the industry's biggest names and executives across multiple segments. These individuals will be featured in panel discussions, workshops, and keynotes during the summit.London Summit 2019 Launches the Latest Era in FX and Fintech - Join NowMr. Haseeb will be featured in one of the most anticipated panels in the main Speaker Hall on November 13, which will focus on the state of the cryptocurrency industry. As a reminder, if you have not already done so, make sure to sign up for your seat today!This year, upwards of 3,000 attendees are expected, constituting leading retail FX brokers, fintech startups, investment banks, crypto exchanges, and service providers. Mr. Haseeb's expertise in the crypto space will be on full display throughout his panel discussion.Suggested articlesSpectre.ai Launches World's First Hyper-API and Mobile App!Go to article >>Spectre.ai Launches World's First Hyper-API and Mobile App!Go to article >>The crypto space has seen a dynamic period of growth after originally taking the industry by storm, creating a fresh hype in efficiency, innovation, and financial inclusion. We are now reaching a new era in the crypto world as mass adoption comes to the horizon.Join this insightful session to gain first-hand knowledge of the vast complexities of the cryptocurrency industry, directly from experience-based views of crypto champions. Mr. Haseeb joins other crypto luminaries and specialists to discuss a wide range of issues currently facing the industry.These include several areas of emphasis, such as the analysis of the current state of the crypto sphere. Additionally, the panel will touch on the addition of crypto in the business model and what it means to brokers.Finally, consideration will be paid to payments, regulations, and KYC when offering cryptocurrency trading to clients. What exactly are the biggest risks and opportunities will be up for discussion and what to look out for and what to avoid.Stay tuned for further details on London Summit 2019's workshops and panels, which will be updated daily. See you in a few weeks!