IOTA-based sensor Lidbot sold out after a few daysIOTA is the leading cryptocurrency for machine-to-machine payments and has partners from various industries worldwide. In contrast to classic cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin or Ripple, IOTA does not rely on blockchain technology and uses the tangle instead. This technology has enormous potential, so that big companies such as Bosch, Zuhlke and other industry giants are already piloting or using the tangle.Lidbot, in cooperation with IOTA, has developed an intelligent sensor based on the IOTA Tangle and a few days ago made the first commercial sale of their product. Lidbot was released to the industry in a first batch on January 20, 2020 at a reduced price. After only 4 days the offer was completely sold out.Good News! Lidbot Pre-Orders are now Live.Here: https://t.co/2I0jKwVAQFJust go to the link below and get a sample sensor for only $100USD. The sensor includes 1 year access to our analytics platform, REST API and Connectivity! #iot #iota #sensor #smartcity #smartbuildings pic.twitter.com/elwRQy5QTY-- Lidbot. (@lidbot_) January 20, 2020The Lidbot sensor is used in the waste management industry to help waste management companies keep track of their current demand. Libot indicates when a waste or recycling container is full and sends a message to a predefined contact. According to the company, the device measures the distance from the lid to the bottom and can thus make any waste bin or container an intelligent part of the IOTA ecosystem.Lidbot works completely without routers or other technical devices that cost a lot of money, time and weight. The infrastructure is inexpensive to produce and can be used on almost any waste bin. The company is already represented in over 120 countries worldwide, as demand is much higher than expected, as the first sales run has shown.Another innovative product is the so-called Lidbot.Robin. This intelligent litter bin has a rechargeable battery that is expected to last up to 5 years. The product is a globally networked "Smart Bin" and can transmit data from anywhere via a mobile phone connection. Lidbot.Robin was developed for intelligent cities, so-called "Smart Cities of the future".This type of bin works completely autonomously and does not even need to be connected to the city's power grid. Within a smart city this type of waste system could save many resources, time and money by using the Tangle. IOTA is already working within the +CityxChange project, funded by the European Union, to develop the next generation cityThe following video shows how Lidbot works in a short and concise way:The basic idea is to construct and modernize new and existing buildings with power generation and transmission facilities, similar to the ENTRA "Powerhouse", which was developed by IOTA as part of a proof of concept. These energy efficient buildings will be able to trade surplus energy directly with each other within the block/district at competitive prices.IOTA's technology can enable dedicated energy meters to automatically communicate and exchange important information. Energy can be automatically and locally requested and offered. In addition, it should be possible for energy transfers and payments to be carried out automatically through a P2P service offer.Furthermore, Deposy has been working for some time on the development of an intelligent deposit system. In this system, every bottle collector is rewarded for having paid a deposit. The person receives not only the deposit, but also an additional terminal money that can be paid out in MIOTA to an IOTA wallet. It remains to be seen whether we will one day see a Smart City based entirely on the IOTA Tangle.The price of MIOTA has moved sideways (- 0.32%) within the last 24 hours and stands at 0.2331 USD at the time of writing.Follow us on Facebook and Twitter and don't miss any hot news anymore! Do you like our price indices?Last Updated on 25 January, 2020