IOTA presents new research forum IOTA.cafeThe German cryptocurrency IOTA already cooperates with some heavyweights of the tech industry, such as Bosch, VW, Jaguar and some others. IOTA is regarded as the cryptocurrency for machines, but it also ensures young talent and is active in many initiatives that promote new talents and ideas. A new forum has been set up to discuss current developments at IOTA.Two days ago, IOTA launched the IOTA.cafe website, where companies, individuals, developers and newcomers can discuss upcoming projects, progress and updates at IOTA. This measure is intended to strengthen cooperation between the various players in the ecosystem and promote cohesion. IOTA says:With the development and maturity of our technology, we noticed the need to have a forum in which everybody can follow and participate in IOTA's research efforts. We hope that this forum will foster collaboration among team members and external researchers.At the beginning of this year, IOTA entered into a cooperation with Nova to set up a fund to finance innovative ideas from start-ups. However, IOTA is not only providing financial support, but there is also a mentoring programme.The participating companies receive support from more than 20 experts from various industries and have access to the IOTA test laboratory. This is where all stakeholders can meet and exchange ideas and define new goals.These activities clearly demonstrate IOTA's commitment to an active dialogue between all stakeholders and to promoting creative ideas and approaches.IOTA used to be one of the world's largest crypto currencies (measured by market capitalization) and ranked among the top 10 for some time. However, MIOTA's price has continued to fall and has seen a steady downward trend in recent months. IOTA's price has been sideways for the last 24 hours (- 0.02%) and is at USD 0.2601 at the time of writing.Follow us on Facebook and Twitter and don't miss any hot news anymore! Do you like our price indexes?Last Updated on 17 November, 2019