IOTA instead Ethereum Indian technology company Tata Elxsi develops smart car solutionTata Elxsi is a subsidiary of the Indian multinational conglomerate Tata Group, which had a turnover of more than 110 billion dollars in 2018 and includes Tata Chemicals, Tata Communications, Tata Motors, Taj Hotels and Jaguar Land Rover, among others. In a technical document entitled "Scalable decentralized solution for secure vehicle-to-vehicle communication", the company has proposed the use of the IOTA Tangle for vehicle-to-vehicle communication.As Tata Elxsi writes in the paper, the automotive industry is facing major changes in the coming years. Smart cars that are connected and communicate with each other are the future. However, as the Indian company explains, there is a massive problem of potential cyber attacks:The kind of growth the automotive industry is poised for in fields of connected cars is both fascinating and alarming at the same time. The communication devices equipped to the cars and the data exchanges done between vehicle to a vehicle are prone to a lot of cyber-related attacks.Tata Elxsi outlines that the signals sent between vehicles via the Vehicular Adhoc Network (VANET) can be intercepted by the attackers and are vulnerable to various attacks such as the man in the middle attack, DOS or sybil. However, with the blockchain technology there is a solution that can prevent this. Every data transmission is registered in the decentralized, unchangeable blockchain ledger, which guarantees the "authenticity and integrity of the signals".However, with regard to blockchain technology, Tata Elxsi also points out that it has one major drawback, which is scalability:But the use of Blockchain Platforms such as Ethereum has various drawbacks like scalability which makes it infeasible for connected car system. In this paper, we propose a solution to address various drawbacks of VANET such as privacy issues and, security using a more scalable decentralized platform called IOTA with Tangle network as core.Furthermore, Tata Elxsi outlines in the paper that the Tangle uses a directed acyclic graph structure to store each transaction. This makes the Tangle more scalable and able to handle more transactions, which is essential as the connected vehicle network transmits more than a thousand transactions per second, says Tata Elxsi.The information is currently only based on the publicly available summary of the paper. A publication of the entire paper is planned by SAE International in the USA on April 14, 2020. It is expected that new details will then be disclosed.The automotive industry could become an important use case for IOTA in the future. With Volkswagen, Audi, Land Rover Jaguar, EDAG and the CityBot, as well as the intelligent car park solution from Trive.Park, the IOTA Foundation has already established several partnerships in this area.Follow us on Facebook and Twitter and don't miss any hot news anymore! Do you like our price indices?Last Updated on 7 February, 2020