John McAfee Launches Crypto Trading Platform McAfeeMagicBritish-American IT-businessman and crypto fanatic John McAfee on Wednesday unveiled a digital asset trading platform, enabling both manual and automated trading.Dubbed as McAfeeMagic, the platform will allow users to trade in digital currencies "across multiple cryptocurrency exchanges, all at the same time and from the comfort of a single user interface."Discover the Barcelona Trading Conference - A Top Tier Crypto Trading EventSorry to be late with my magnum opus trading platform, but I did not anticipate having to mud wrestle the Bahamian Police Commissioner along with dodging assasins this week. But better late than never. Here it is. (Next week the debit cards)https://t.co/boglMOWrCv-- John McAfee (@officialmcafee) June 11, 2019
"The 'magic' is being able to make a snap trade, while your pre-set automated bots are making 100s of trades for you (on different exchanges) in the background! - That's McAfee Magic," the website reads.The platform is currently supporting trades on eight exchanges - Binance, Kraken, Poloniex, Huobi, Bittrex, HitBTC, Exmo, LiveCoin, and Coinbene. Users need to add the API keys of the desired exchange on the platform to execute trades.McAfeeMagic is offering two types of trading services to the traders - one is the usual spot trading and the other is shadow trading, traders can mimic the executed trades of any professional traders who are "ranked by the community by their trading success."In addition, to secure the platform from potential threats, it has been hosted on "top grade" Amazon Web Services servers, which comes with DDoS attack protection and can "scale on demand."Suggested articlesSpectre.ai Launches World's First Hyper-API and Mobile App!Go to article >>Spectre.ai Launches World's First Hyper-API and Mobile App!Go to article >>"We are only releasing this platform to the public after extensive testing and auditing processes that stretched months," the website noted.WE ARE UP!!!!!The hackers are banished to the writhing mass of nothing from which they came.https://t.co/5jRN3sSyUg is up, live, and waiting for your caress.I believe the wait was worth it. Tidbits of the Magic listed below. Enjoy my friends, followers and detractors. pic.twitter.com/xksFrVwUQm-- John McAfee (@officialmcafee) June 12, 2019John McAfee, the founder of anti-virus firm McAfee who sold his shares in the software company in the mid-1990s, is a controversial figure in the crypto community. He was accused many times of shilling cryptocurrencies. He is also a fugitive in the eyes of US authorities for tax evasion and in a recent tweet, he threatened the US officials to leave him alone or he will "f!@#ing burry" them.Last month, he released an advertisement-supported app called Bitcoin Play to reward the users in fractions of Bitcoins for correctly answering various trivia questions on topics like sports, general knowledge, and entertainment.