Justin Sun predicts Tron price of 409.000 USD Exaggeration or realityJustin Sun has posted a prediction about the price of Tron (TRX) on his Twitter account. The CEO of the Tron Foundation recently wrote that TRON (TRX) is aiming for a prize of 409,000 USD. Sun gave no further details or reasons as to how he came up with this price or how he calculated it. So it was not surprising that the tweet attracted a lot of attention in the crypto community. Reasonably, Sun was also accused of trying to create a new hype about TRON with this marketing strategy.The CEO of the Tron Foundation has a reputation for exaggerating on certain news to make his cryptocurrency known. For example, he announced that the Tron network has reached 4 million users. However, the actual number of active users was below 100,000, and he was also accused of promoting a Ponzi scheme on the Just.Game platform.Therefore it is necessary to take Sun's statement with caution. The tweet predicts an increase in the Tron price from the current 0.014 USD to 409,000 USD, which is an increase of 2.9 billion percent. It is therefore not surprising that the crypto community rejected his tweet as absurd.$TRX price target is 409k-- Justin Sun (@justinsuntron) January 9, 2020Apart from that, Tron has managed to secure a significant cooperation with the booking company Travala. The company now accepts TRX as a means of payment. Users of the platform can now use TRX to book more than 2 million hotels worldwide. Travala's services will be available in 16 countries, including the United States, Canada, Mexico, Spain, France, Belgium, Italy, Australia and many others.Travala is a platform that uses the Blockchain of one of Tron's competitors, NEO. Tron is one of many crypto currencies that can be used on the platform.Another cooperation that attracted positive attention from the crypto community is the one that Tron formed with the DLive streaming platform. The platform will migrate to the Tron blockchain and join the BitTorrent ecosystem. The cooperation will seek to boost the exchange of peer-to-peer content based on blockchain technology as an alternative for large platforms such as YouTube.One of the largest contributors to the partnership is PewDiePie. The Youtuber recently talked about the platform and explained in a promotional video what DLive is and also promoted TRON in this context. PewDiePie has become the voice of this partnership to help grow the platform and increase the number of users.The news of TRON's acquisition of DLive has received a lot of attention after YouTube censored content related to cryptocurrency. Although the content was later restored, the crypto community was surprised by the arbitrary decision. It triggered also a debate about finding a viable alternative to YouTube. DLive might be an option.The price of Tron stands at $0.0140 and has made a profit of 0.98% in the last 24 hours.Below is the PewDiePie video on DLive:Follow us on Facebook and Twitter and don't miss any hot news anymore! Do you like our price indices?Last Updated on 10 January, 2020