Leslie Tam Joins the Barcelona Trading ConferenceThe Barcelona Trading Conference (BTC) is right around the corner and continues to enlist the biggest names and executives around the industry. The largest blockchain event of the summer has now seen Binance's Head of Trading Leslie Tam join the event as a speaker.The Barcelona Trading Conference will be held at the International Convention Center, between July 10-11. The event will be hosted by Finance Magnates, helping serve as a nexus and meeting point for the industry's marquee executives and key players.Discover Barcelona Trading Conference - A Top Tier Crypto Trading EventFor his part, Mr. Tam oversees trading for one of the world's largest crypto exchanges. His prowess in this space cannot be understated, making his perspective hugely instrumental heading into the event. With the overall industry at a key crossroads, many are speculating on what the future may hold, with Mr. Tam weighing in.While the long crypto winter cools off retail interest, the institutional trading eco-system is taking form. Veteran market participants will shed light on their role in creating the institutional crypto market, addressing key opportunities and main challenges.Suggested articlesSpectre.ai Launches World's First Hyper-API and Mobile App!Go to article >>Spectre.ai Launches World's First Hyper-API and Mobile App!Go to article >>Join Mr. Tam, along with several other industry leaders, to discuss a wide range of trends facing the crypto markets. He will be speaking on institutional adoption, and prospective attendees are encouraged to familiarize themselves with the session as well as the overall event's agenda by accessing the following link.Mr. Tam will be exploring several unique and insightful angles this July at the Barcelona Trading Conference. This includes whether lessons can be distilled from retail trading models and how better technology can hasten market adoption.Furthermore, the star-studded panel will also be addressing the pressing needs that must be handled before big money managers can finally invest in digital assets. Perhaps of greatest importance is the role regulatory authorities have and will continue to play in the institutional level of crypto trading.In addition to the aforementioned panel, Mr. Tam will also be giving a keynote speech during the Barcelona Trading Conference regarding Market Trend and Liquidity. He will be discussing the impact of market liquidity on trading.This is one session you do not want to miss. Sign up for your seat at the Barcelona Trading Conference today!