Liquid.com Partners with Cryptocurrency Tracker BitUniverseJapanese cryptocurrency platform Liquid.com has partnered with BitUniverse, a digital assets portfolio tracker and trading terminal, to integrate the Liquid API into their service. With BitUniverse, Liquid users can track their portfolio, execute trades and set up trading bots across Liquid and other exchanges.This collaboration also allows users to trade over 6,000 coins with price quotes from multiple platforms and wallets, all through one app, without switching from different apps. BitUniverse now supports more than 22 crypto exchanges including Binance, Huobi, Bittrex, OKEx amongst others.London Summit 2019 Launches the Latest Era in FX and Fintech - Join NowBitUniverse's portfolio manager automatically tracks and updates transaction history and cost-basis data to make performance tracking easier. Their Grid Trading Bot feature supposedly lets users make more profits through automating their trades, but they advertise too-good-to-be-true potential returns.Suggested articlesSpectre.ai Launches World's First Hyper-API and Mobile App!Go to article >>Spectre.ai Launches World's First Hyper-API and Mobile App!Go to article >>"A Grid Trading Bot is a type of trading bot that operates within a defined price range. The price range parameters are selected by the user. Once set, the bot will essentially execute buys towards the lower end of the range and sell in the upper range to generate profits. A Grid Trading Bot is a great tool for ranging, fluctuating market. It makes it to play the range, buying during price decreases and selling at a profit" the statement explains.The US arm of Liquid.com, Liquid Financial USA Inc, has recently appointed FX industry veteran Justin Hertzberg as its first chief executive officer (CEO). Liquid USA is a jointly-owned entity by Liquid.com and Virtual Currency Partners (VCP), a consortium of entrepreneurs investing in the fintech and cryptocurrency industries. The company has acquired a FinCEN-registered money service business through which Liquid, with offices in New York and Atlanta, will access the US security tokens market.The appointment also comes a few months after Liquid.com completed its Series C funding round led by Bitmain and IDG Capital, which valued the company at more than $1 billion, making it the latest crypto unicorn.Liquid, which was the first exchange to be officially licensed by the Japan Financial Services Agency (JFSA), also plans to use the new funds to help fuel their expansion across Asia and build new products.