Litecoin, Bitcoin Cash and ETH help fire victims in AustraliaThe cryptocurrency community has been called upon to make donations in support of fire victims in Australia. This is led by CEO of Nugget's News educational platform, Alex Saunders. Saunders took to his Twitter handle to list wallet addresses starting with Bitcoin (BTC) and later Ethereum (ETH), Litecoin (LTC), Binance Coin (BNB) and Bitcoin Cash (BCH).Let's show the world the power of #bitcoin. All donations are going to the Rural Fire Service.  #AustraliaBurning #AustraliaOnFire #NSWfires BTC address: 38gi89vKr7VPCcwdoY2coTha86rfDHeyAR pic.twitter.com/9xjAuROzMb-- Alex Saunders (@AlexSaundersAU) January 4, 2020The Australian fire menace has been on for a few days now, destroying millions of acres of land and properties of the victims. Billions of animals are also said to have been killed as a result of the fire which seems to be getting worse. Users of the above mentioned tokens are therefore called upon to donate to this cause towards bringing relief to the victims.Cryptocurrency has a bad reputation among world governments and is a thing of concern to them. Chief among the concerns is that crypto tokens are used by criminals to carry out illicit activities anonymously. This is one of the major reasons such authorities resist idea of digital currencies and everything it represents.The call to donate crypto to a noble cause such as the Australian fire is a move by Saunders and the crypto community to prove that crypto tokens can be used for noble things also and not just by criminals. It is just happens to be one of several charity events in which cryptocurrencies have been used to assist people.In September 2019, a New York-based foundation, Rainforest Foundation US, reached out to the cryptocurrency community for support against a similar fire in the Amazon Rainforest. Donations were made in (BTC), Ether (ETH), Litecoin (LTC), Bitcoin Cash (BCH) and other cryptocurrencies to help victims of the fire.Binance Charity had also raised funds in cryptocurrency to support victims of Hurricane Dorian as well as victims of flood in Japan also in 2019. Apart from this, millions of dollars have been raised in crypto donations for several causes all over the world.Cryptocurrencies are perfectly suited as a donation, as they usually arrive on the recipient's account after several minutes and do not require several working days and disproportionately high fees.The donations for the Australian fire are still in progress. The victims can still donate. According to Nugget News, the following addresses should be used for donations:BTC: 38gi89vKr7VPCcwdoY2coTha86rfDHeyAR
ETH: 0x2cc057d7e6a9c1e56397c147405142066e2b0d02
BCH: 1MhhFwyQmNfynWxfD9qnXGqRhFvzhc6Qjo
LTC: MA1tScyPucdR8qt8MNdUPCgNthyPwYencb
BNB: bnb165r4pxe862hetuz2l3wt4yx43uhh4ph9u0ptz6 MEMO: 682855254Follow us on Facebook and Twitter and don't miss any hot news anymore! Do you like our price indices?Last Updated on 5 January, 2020