Microsoft launches game book from the 1980s on the VeChain BlockchainMicrosoft has teamed up with one of the world's leading game developers, Eidos, and the game book company Fabled Lands to develop a blockchain card game. The game is based on the history of a game book from the 1980's, which was one of the most popular works of this genre at that time.In the current press release Fabled Lands announces that the book "The Way of the Tiger" in the 1980s was a bestseller by the authors Jamie Thomson and Mark Smith. The game book is now renamed "Arena of Death" and revived as a new classic. A playbook is a book in which readers can determine the course of the story themselves, as there are several choices for the next steps.The readers of the book compete as players in fantasy card fights and can determine the fate or the course of the story of the book themselves. The CEO of the new brand and original author Jamie Thomson decided to bring the ninja game to the blockchain. Thomson explains that now is the right time to take this step:It felt like the right time. We were going to relaunch the series into a computer game format but this new technology (blockchain), just made more sense. Imagine playing Magic the Gathering but knowing if you owned a card, it really does belong to you. Or if we say there are only 100 editions of an item or skill, you know there really are only 100 editions.The "Way of the Tiger" is launched on the VeChain Thor blockchain and uses non-fungible tokens to depict in-game valuables and make them usable in the game. Prominent examples of the use of non-fungible tokens are games such as Gods Unchained and Neon District, which already make extensive use of this technology to give cards and items a higher value.This game concept has established itself in a large part of the game value and has brought the companies revenues of several hundred million euros. Thomson further states that the integration on the VeChain Thor Blockchain is designed to be very user-friendly and simple and was therefore chosen:The blockchain was chosen 'due to its ability to scale, and create our cards and items without having to deal with all the crypto stuff.Thomson is referring to fee delegation utilised by VeChain which removes the need for cryptocurrency in order to create cards.The press release also states that VeChain is typically used in supply chain management or product verification. Most recently, VeChain developed a traceability tool with a local government in China to verify the authenticity of tea using the blockchain.VeChain is also cooperating with the Australian shoe manufacturer Chase Shiel to eradicate counterfeit high value brand shoes. NFD chips from VeChain are used, on which all important information can be stored and read by the end customer using a QR code.These are just a few examples of the wide range of possible applications for the VeChain blockchain. Experts predict that the blockchain gaming sector will grow strongly in the next few years, so that VeChain could also benefit from further partnerships.VET's price at the time of writing is USD 0.0074 and has risen by more than 18.74% in the last 24 hours.Follow us on Facebook and Twitter and don't miss any hot news anymore! Do you like our price indices?Last Updated on 2 December, 2019