NEO’s Lili Zhao Joins the Barcelona Trading ConferenceThe Barcelona Trading Conference (BTC) continues to attract big names from around the crypto and blockchain industry. This includes NEO Global Development's Director of Ecosystem Growth, Lili Zhao.The event itself will take place on July 10-11 at the International Convention Center in Barcelona. Hosted by Finance Magnates, the event will bring together executives and key industry players.Discover Barcelona Trading Conference - A Top Tier Crypto Trading EventMs. Zhao has built a lengthy resume in the cryptocurrency sector and has regularly appeared at marquee events and symposiums. Prior to her role at NEO Global Development, she has also served in numerous advisory and board membership roles at MedMira Inc, LiveTree ADEPT, VETRI, and others.Suggested articlesSpectre.ai Launches World's First Hyper-API and Mobile App!Go to article >>Spectre.ai Launches World's First Hyper-API and Mobile App!Go to article >>Cryptocurrencies continue to see rapid price movements and volatility While this boom or bust cycle has sometimes paid off for investors interested in arbitrage, it has proven to be one of the biggest barriers in the path towards universal adoption of a tokenized economy.One of the biggest trends in crypto presently is stablecoins. Are these the answer to crypto's volatility problem? One of the leading panels at the Barcelona Trading Conference will look to address this question and move. Ms. Zhao will be featured on the panel, joining Miko Matsumura and several others, discussing stablecoins as an area of focus.The Barcelona Trading Conference will also be featuring an in-depth developers' workshop on the NEO blockchain. Details will be announced soon so stay tuned!Additionally, the veteran panel will also focus on the benefits of programmable stablecoins and how investors can protect themselves from a worst-case stablecoin scenario. This also includes the differences between centralized, crypto-collateralized, and non-collateralized stablecoins.Will stablecoins subject exchanges to a new round of regulatory scrutiny? Make sure not to miss this panel. If you have not already done so, make sure to familiarize yourself with the event's agenda today.