Pay your hotel stay with Bitcoin, Ethereum and Ripple in over 2 millions hotelsThe adaptation of cryptocurrencies is decisive for its range of application, acceptance and confidence building within the population and industry. The travel industry has always been innovative and positive about the use of cryptocurrencies. Through the new partnership between Travala.com and Booking.com, Bitcoin, Ethereum, Ripple and Co. have made further major progress in adaptation.The online travel agency Booking.com, one of the world's largest travel booking platforms, has entered into a strategic partnership with the start-up Travala.com. Booking provides Travala with the company's own accommodation services, enabling the startup to greatly expand its own range of services.Travala.com users can now access Booking.com's full travel catalogue to book hotels in over 230 countries and 90,000 destinations. In addition to traditional payment methods such as credit cards or Paypal, users can also pay with the AVA token and 20 other cryptocurrencies.In the current press release, Travala states that Booking has recognised the growing potential and is therefore making its real estate portfolio available to the blockchain and cryptocurrency market. This step shows that the acceptance of cryptocurrencies as a standard form of payment for travel bookings will soon be established in the industry.Matt Luczynski, CEO of Travala.com, describes the cooperation as another step forward for cryptocurrencies in the mainstream:This partnership allows our users to access Booking.com's accommodation listings, as well as the listings from several other leading travel suppliers, which is a fantastic use case for our own AVA token and another huge step towards mass cryptocurrency adoption.At Travala.com, users receive a best-price guarantee and discounts as well as loyalty rewards via their token incentives based on the native utility token AVA. AVA is the platform's proprietary token and can be used for a variety of payment and reward purposes. The AVA token was also listed on the Binance exchange yesterday.Travala.com was founded in 2017 and since its launch has developed into one of the largest accommodation booking platforms in the world. With the integration of Booking's booking services, the service portfolio continues to grow and is one of the largest online travel agencies in the world in terms of the number of bookable hotels.Compared to traditional payment methods, crypto currencies offer significant advantages in terms of transaction fees and costs. More and more companies from various industrial sectors are recognizing this potential and are piloting its use within their own business processes.The German hotel company A&O Hotels has accepted Bitcoin as a legitimate payment method since 2017. When paying in Bitcoin, users could even earn a cashback via the website.Cheapair.com has been offering the possibility to pay flights and hotel bookings worldwide with Bitcoin since 2013, as this demand from their own clientele has grown strongly to this day. Other well-known tour operators who accept Bitcoin are, among othersLast Updated on 26 November, 2019