PricewaterhouseCoopers to develop strategy for commercialisation of CardanoIn a new update from January 27, Charles Hoskinson, CEO of IOHK, provided information about the latest progress of Cardano. Hoskinson addressed some of the issues that the Shelley Incentivized Test Network is currently experiencing and emphasized that despite its success, it is still an evolving product. Beginning in February, Hoskinson said there will be an even greater focus on marketing for Cardano.According to him, February will be the first month in which Cardano's product managers will begin providing product updates. February will also see Dynal Patel, a senior product manager at Cardano, working out a plan for the transition to the Incentivized Haskell test network. Hoskinson noted that this is extremely important as there are more than 900 stake pools that need to be transferred from the Shelley test network.In addition, IOHK, the Cardano Foundation and Emurgo are working to further commercialise Cardano. Hoskinson explained:To me it is very important that we go from the science world where we clearly won and make sure that the regular world, especially the institutional investors fully appreciate what we have been able to produce. [...] So there gonna be a big effort on product management all throughout the month of February.In order to develop a commercial strategy, PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) has been engaged to promote Cardano as a commercial product. To do this, PwC will build on the strategy developed by McCann Dublin for the rebranding of Cardano. Once the concept is in place, PwC will hold a multi-day workshop to present the future business strategy for Cardano.According to Hoskinson, PwC will ensure that all tasks of IOHK, Cardano Foundation and Emurgo are ideally aligned to achieve the best possible product marketing. Based on numerous requests, IOHK will also work out a process for how crypto exchanges can list ADA more easily and quickly:We are also trying to consolidate the way to list Cardano on exchanges. We found a lot of commercial conversations with our exchange partners, the one who have listed us and the one who are considering listing us.Regarding technical advances, Hoskinson explained that the Incentiveized Shelley Test Network was not planned as a finished commercial product from the outset. Instead, its purpose was to test the technical functionality and develop a staking model that could be widely adopted. This, according to Hoskinson, was achieved by IOHK. While Hoskinson emphasized that he is very satisfied with the amount of ADA delegated and the number of stake pools, he expressed dissatisfaction with the technical problems of the network.Most of the minor technical issues were resolved with the patches in January, he said. However, the network's biggest problem is the community's expectations of the user interface, which many users in the Shelley test network complained about. Hoskinson explained that Shelley was never intended as a "consumer product". He continued that the Haskell based testnet is designed to provide a better user experience because it is a consumer product for the average user.Follow us on Facebook and Twitter and don't miss any hot news anymore! Do you like our price indices?Last Updated on 28 January, 2020