Privacy coins will join the TRON blockchain – more to come in 2020The Tron Foundation led Justin Sun got the year off to a good start. In a recent report, the company gave an update on the progress of pending projects and the growth of the Tron network. In addition, the Tron CEO and his partners seem to have a surprise for the community.In the report published on June 6, 2020, it is possible to check the latest figures on the growth of the Tron network. Last year, Tron's CEO was highly questioned for stating that the network had reached 4 million users. Now the number of users stands at 4,400,0759 with 34,127 new addresses during the week.However, the report does make it clear at this time that the number of active users of the Tron network is much lower. It stands at 162,000 active users at the time of publication. In addition, the network reached 851 million with 8.59 million new transactions so far this year. In total, the trading volume of the Tron network is $38 million USD.The Tron CEO noted other important milestones on his Twitter account. The technical development of the network has allowed armored transactions to be in its testnet deployed on the Tron mainnet. Although no further details are presented it could be related to an earlier tweet. With his characteristic style, Sun pointed out that privacy coins could come to Tron.Along with the Poloniex cryptoexchange, Tron's CEO may announce more details in the upcoming weeks. As reported by CNF, Sun became one of the investors in the exchange last year. The exchange then acquired the TRXMarket to form the Poloni DEX. The report reveals that the exchange is implementing a commission and discount program for Tron holders. Airdrops and other promotions for Tron users will be announced soon.#TRON Weekly Report1.TRON p2p protocol documents: State Machine and Node Scoring Policy.2.TRON's block height has exceeded 16 million.3.TRON has completed beta test on shielded transaction and deployed it on the test net. #TRX https://t.co/OJUqiTGLZD-- Justin Sun (@justinsuntron) January 6, 2020One of the most important news at the end of last year was the censorship of content related to cryptocurrencies by YouTube. The platform allowed the content to be viewed again. However, this fact raised suspicions and alarms within the cryptocommunity.One of the platforms that has been proposed to implement a solution is Tron. The Foundation led by Justin Sun has formed an partnership with DLive so that the streaming platform will migrate to the Tron blockchain. The cooperation, as the last report says, will seek to promote the exchange of decentralized content.The price of Tron is at $ 0.01430 USD at the time of publication, and has had a slight upward movement of 3.32% in the last 24 hours.Follow us on Facebook and Twitter and don't miss any hot news anymore! Do you like our price indices?Last Updated on 6 January, 2020