Report Ripple’s XRP perfectly suited for central bank supported digital currencyA study by the Bank for International Settlements (BIS) has shown that a central bank-supported digital currency (CBDC) is supported by governments, especially in emerging markets with poorly developed economies. In addition, more than 80% of the 66 central banks surveyed are already working on the development of a CBDC in some form. Furthermore, 40% of the banks surveyed have moved from a conceptual stage to an experimental stage in their projects. This figure represents a significant increase compared to 2018.In regions with a poorly developed infrastructure for banking services, fast and at the same time cheap remittances can ensure the survival of many people who often do not have sufficient access to a bank account. A new report by the World Economic Forum on "Central Bank Digital Currencies (CBDC)" describes that prominent digital currencies could be JPM Coin or Ripple's XRP."Ripple's XRP is designed for inter- or intrabank payments and settlements"World Economic Forum Report on "Central Bank Digital Currencies (CBDC)"#xrp #fintech #crypto #blockchain @Ripple #payments pic.twitter.com/5GKPZDJRYG-- XRP_Cro (@stedas) February 14, 2020The JPM Coin is a stable coin that is linked to the value of the USD and is therefore not subject to major fluctuations. In addition, the JPM Coin is issued on a private blockchain controlled by JPM Morgan Bank, which is operated under the Bank's Internal blockchain Task Force Quorum, and can only be used by selected companies and banks.The XRP token is subject to the price fluctuations of the digital asset and acts as a bridge currency to transport a digital value from one end of the world to the other, almost in real time and at low cost. Whether the base currency is the USD or the Mexican Peso, XRP transfers the value transparently and quickly.Brad Garlinghouse, CEO of Ripple, recently stated in an interview that he has great doubts that the JPM Coin will prevail with other banks:JPM coin will run on a blockchain network called Quorum, which requires permissions and users must be approved by JP Morgan. >> all the other banks will use it for sure! They will certainly ask their clients to open an account @ JPM too. seriously?He further describes that the JPM Coin can only be used for USD to USD transactions, saving transaction fees and transfer time, but offering no other advantages compared to a classic bank transfer:If you're just moving within the JPM ledger, and it has to be dollar-to-dollar, one-to-one backing, I don't understand what problem that solves.Marjan Delatinne, Head of Global Banking at Ripple, also describes that regional banks are "hungry" for a change that will benefit not only the large banking institutions, but also medium-sized banks. In an interview published at the end of last year, she says: