Ripple’s Xpring, Mastercard, Binance X and NEO join Blockchain Education AllianceLast October, the Blockchain Education Alliance was launched by MouseBelt, an initiative to promote blockchain innovation through education. The first members of the Alliance were the Stellar Development Foundation, TRON, Hedera, ICON, Ontology, Wanchain, Harmony One, Nervos, Orbs, LTO Network, Emurgo, NEM and ETC Labs.The initiative aims to work together to provide university students with the knowledge they need to enter the world of work in the blockchain sector. The Education Alliance intends to maintain a network of industry and academic leaders to jointly develop educational initiatives that accelerate the mass adoption of blockchain technology.MouseBelt already announced in October 2019 that it "will announce another 15 members in the near future". As the official website reveals, more members have now joined the initiative. These include Ripple's innovation arm Xpring, the payment giant Mastercard, Binance with Binance X, the crypto currency exchange KuCoin, the Chinese smart contract platform NEO, the Internet-of-things start-up IoTeX, the blockchain security company Quantstamp and the data blockchain service Constellation Labs.Source: https://partners.mousebelt.university/MouseBelt organizes, among other things, personal meetings with personalities of the industry as well as hackathons to support the cooperation. Members can also meet with researchers to develop new use cases that address specific challenges in their industry. Ashlie Meredith, director of MouseBelt University, commented on the announcement in October 2019:Universities need established experts in the space to help develop curriculum and projects [..] to share valuable knowledge. We have an opportunity to have a positive impact on how blockchain technology is introduced to students, which will result in more blockchain developers, more innovative research, and higher quality companies.The Blockchain Education Alliance comprises a network of over 67 student blockchain organizations in 14 countries. The university program has also established partnerships with some of the world's leading engineering departments, including UCLA, UCSB and UC Davis, through their UC Blockchain Initiative. Most notably, Ripple's participation in the MouseBelt Blockchain Education Alliance fits in with Ripple's efforts in the education sector.Ripple already launched the University Blockchain Research Initiative (UBRI) in June 2018, which supports educational institutions worldwide with financial resources, knowledge and personnel to educate their students in the field of blockchain technology.Follow us on Facebook and Twitter and don't miss any hot news anymore! Do you like our price indices?Last Updated on 13 February, 2020