Ripple’s XRP can now be purchased at 3,000 ATMs worldwideThe adaptation of cryptocurrencies has a significant impact on the confidence building and use of the new technology in people's everyday lives. General Bytes is the largest manufacturer of ATMs worldwide and announced a few hours ago that it is expanding its own portfolio. At the provided devices, users can buy different cryptocurrencies easily and quickly.An ATM (Automated Teller Machine) is a payment gateway that provides the ability to purchase cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin, Ethereum or XRP by debit or credit card. According to General Bytes, it has set up more than 3,000 ATMs worldwide, mostly in prominent locations such as subway stations or large shopping malls.In a recent post on Reddit, the company explains that since yesterday, all ATMs already installed offer the possibility to buy XRP. Older devices may also offer XRP. However, it should be noted that all devices are individually owned, so the device installers decide which cryptocurrencies are offered on the ATM.To date, General Bytes has sold a total of 3,117 ATMs, supports more than 123 different fiat currencies and has processed more than 16,065,040 transactions. The ATMs have also been sold to more than 63 countries worldwide. The map below shows where General Bytes devices have been installed worldwide.The latest devices have been installed in Westwood Shell (Boston, USA) on Rt. 1 Automile opposite Porsche and Mercedes Benz. Interested parties can easily and quickly select the respective cryptocurrency and the corresponding purchase amount and then enter their wallet address. The amount is then debited from the debit or credit card and the cryptocurrency is sent to the wallet address entered.Brand new CoinMover digital currency machine installed at Westwood Shell on the Rt. 1 Automile across from Porsche and Mercedes Benz. Lowest rates of any crypto ATM in Boston area! @CoinATMRadar @generalbytes @ethereum @monero @Dashpay #BTC @Bitcoin https://t.co/eqbAaOY98i pic.twitter.com/4z1TRJpf2I-- CoinMover (@Coin_Mover) December 29, 2019As we reported earlier, Ripple's venture capital firm, Xpring, announced in mid-September a $1.5 million investment in crypto-ATM company Coinme. Coinme is one of the largest ATM providers worldwide and has already sold more than 2,500 ATMs. Ripple intends to use the investment to promote the adoption of XRP.The investment will be used to bring new devices into service. In addition, Ripple has also secured access to other key markets through wise investments. For example, Ripple invested in the Vega protocol to prepare the introduction of XRP for the derivatives financial market. Xpring has also invested in the Flare Networks project to expand the scope of XRP. In the future, it should be possible to conclude smart contracts on the XRP ledger using Flare Networks.Despite Ripple's continued expansion, the price of XRP continues to show a downward trend and is currently at USD 0.1937.Follow us on Facebook and Twitter and don't miss any hot news anymore! Do you like our price indices?Last Updated on 29 December, 2019