Software AG will use IOTA for the Cumulocity IoT platformWith the establishment of the Tangle EE Working Group yesterday, the IOTA Foundation took an important step in advancing the commercial use of IOTA technology. The creation of the Tangle EE will create a professional environment in which companies can actively participate in the development of IOTA and also receive a reliable legal framework.The founding members include some long-term partners of IOTA, such as Dell Technologies, STMicroelectronics, BiiLabs and Software AG. The latter, through its Vice President for Innovation & Architecture, Christoph Strnadl, published a blog post that highlights why Software AG decided to join the Tangle EE and what future developments can be expected.As CNF reported in mid-January, Strnadl hinted that the world-renowned company Software AG is planning to work more closely with IOTA. Strnadl said at the time that Software AG is not simply adding IOTA features in its "back chamber" and then asking potential customers what they think.While mid-January has not yet seen a public announcement of how Software AG and the IOTA Foundation are expanding their collaboration, yesterday's announcement and blog post has shed light on the matter. In addition to their joint work on the Tangle EE, Software AG will use IOTA's technology within its Cumulocity IoT platform.The platform is, as the name suggests, an Internet of Things platform that is open, fast to deploy and distributed. Via the platform, "every thing" is supposed to be connected within minutes and IoT data can be monitored in real-time. As Strnadl noted, Software AG intends to use the IOTA Tangle and IOTA token for functions such as device identity, data origin, integrity and security, as well as micro-transactions and micro-payments in the M2M economy. Moreover Strnadl continued:By extending our webMethods integration offerings with suitable IOTA capabilities we intend to bridge the on-Tangle world with the off-Tangle world (e.g., typical applications like ERP or CRM). This allows the seamless execution of end-to-end business processes in a minimum trust environment.
He added on IOTA's general scope of application for software solutions at Software AG:With IOTA we can help companies secure device and machine communications, improve process quality and efficiency, enable automation beyond a single workstation eventually extending to the full supply chain - and create entirely new peer-to-peer (including M2M) ecosystems.Despite all the euphoria, however, Strnadl also noted that IOTA technology is still at a very early stage of development. Accordingly, Software AG will not base its corporate strategy on IOTA alone. In line with this, the company plans to integrate IOTA in selected co-innovation projects:Business equilibrium currently is too unstable for anyone - customers, consultants, or vendors - to be able to reliably forecast or predict the future. Recognizing this co-evolution of technology vendors and adopters, we plan to advance our efforts to integrate IOTA into our products through selected co-innovation projects with lead users.Jelle Millenaar, Software Developer at the IOTA Foundation, highlighted via Discord the importance of establishing the Tangle EE Working Group. He described that the cooperation with the partners within the Tangle EE will significantly advance the commercialization of IOTA. With regard to the Unified Identity Protocol, one of the first two projects of the Tangle EE Working Group, he stated:This means that we are not going to develop an identity solution alone, nor should we. The signed up parties will all take part in the governance of the open-source software and together decide in what direction the protocol will be developed. A Self Sovereign Identity solution acquires three major hurdles to be resolved: Software, Corporate and Adoption. [...]Corporate and User Adoption creates a classic chicken-egg problem where corporate will adopt something with a lot of users, while users will start using something if a lot of corporates support it. Tangle EE helps us break through the chicken and egg problem. In close collaboration with our partners we will not only develop an excellent software solution, but we will also work towards creating an easy path to corporate adoption.Corporate and User Adoption creates a classic chicken-egg problem where corporate will adopt something with a lot of users, while users will start using something if a lot of corporates support it. Tangle EE helps us break through the chicken and egg problem. In close collaboration with our partners we will not only develop an excellent software solution, but we will also work towards creating an easy path to corporate adoption.In another chat Millenaar continued on this topic:You can imagine that our partners so far have been experimenting with the technology and providing the IOTA Foundation with feedback. Today announcement puts the participants in a position to actively contribute to our projects: Unified Identity and Decentralized Marketplaces and even take part in the governance of the software. [...] It also makes adoption much easier as the resulting software is already co-developed with the target audience.Follow us on Facebook and Twitter and don't miss any hot news anymore! Do you like our price indices?Last Updated on 12 February, 2020