South Korea’s second largest bank cooperates with RippleThe list of banks and financial institutions working with the American startup Ripple is growing and prospering. Ripple now has a partner network that includes banks and financial industry heavyweights such as Axis Bank, SABB, TransferGo, American Express and many more. All these companies share a common goal: to make cross-border payments cheaper and faster.To this end, Ripple provides various software solutions that transfer money from one country to another in a matter of seconds at very low fees. The software solutions include xCurrent and xRapid. The second one uses the XRP token as bridge currency to transfer payments.The newest partner is the second largest bank in South Korea, Shinhan Bank. The bank has a long tradition and was founded in 1982 in Seoul. Together with Jeju Bank, it belongs to the consortium of the Shinhan Financial Group. In addition, Chohung Bank merged with Shinhan Bank on 1 April 2006.Presentation by Sagar Sarbhai shows @ShinhanBankENG (second largest Korean bank) as a @Ripple customer.This means that the two of the largest banks in South Korea are now Ripple customers:1) @ShinhanBankENG (2nd largest)2) @Wooribank (5th largest)https://t.co/cGPJBz4jCf pic.twitter.com/aUKLS4O28z-- XRP Research Center (@XrpCenter) September 25, 2019In 2016, Shinhan Bank had a balance sheet total of KRW 298,945 trillion (USD 260 billion) and loans of KRW 221,228 trillion (USD 184 billion). The Shinhan Bank is the financially strongest subsidiary of the Shinhan Financial Group and the driving force of the conglomerate. So far, there is no information as to whether xCurrent or xRapid should be used as the payment solution.Despite the news, the XRP price is still unimpressed and has fallen by 2.14% to USD 0.2397. Within the last 30 days, the price of XRP has fallen by -12.89%. The crypto market is currently in a downward trend, the actual reasons for which cannot be determined exactly.Industry experts are divided. Some believe that a new bear market has begun. The other part is of the opinion that the expiry of the Bitcoin Future contacts at the CME is responsible for the downtrend. As always, we can only speculate about the connections. The next few days will show in which direction the market will develop.Last Updated on 11 October, 2019