Tezos makes great progress in 2019 – new partnerships and goalsThe Tezos Foundation decided to review the achievements, partnerships and progress made during 2019. During the year, the Tezos Foundation has consolidated important strategic cooperations with the objective of creating real use cases for Tezos (XTZ).The publication of the Tezos Foundation focuses on three areas: performance, partnerships and funded entities. In addition, the Tezos Foundation gives great importance to the role that the community has played in the achievements during the year.The publication highlights the performance of the Tezos network, registering 430 delegates before the end of the year. This achievement is related to the growth that the price of XTZ has had during the year.In addition Tezos has introduced 3 new programming languages for smart contracts with 6 varieties of syntax and had 2 updates approved by its governance model.During this year, the blockchain of Tezos (XTZ) reached an important goal. It became the first blockchain to update automatically without using a hard fork.Other relevant achievements for Tezos during 2019:In terms of partnerships, Tezos' achievements are equally important. The Tezos Foundation has joined forces with banks, groups and platforms to further develop Tezos' potential.Among the most relevant partners you can find Securitize, Globacap, BTG Pactual, Fundament Group. Many of the partners mentioned will use Tezos (XTZ) as part of solutions applied to everyday life.On the other hand, the Tezos community also saw a significant growth. During the year there were 3 international TQuorum events with more than 300 participants, 5 regional organizations were founded (in India, Africa, Brazil, Ukraine, China) and more than 40 Tezos community meetings around the world were conducted.During 2019, several of the major cryptoexchanges enabled staking for Tezos (XTZ). Coinbase, Binance and Kraken have seen a positive growth of user joining the plattforms. Users of the platforms will see a return of 6% per month, paid every other day of the week.For this reason the price of XTZ saw a significant boost in its performance overtaking cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin. Its upward trend could continue due to the role that exchanges play in the market.The price of XTZ is $1.52 USD with a profit of 2.29% in the last 24 hours. Due to the significant growth Tezos entered the top 10 crypto ranking by market capitalization of the biggest cryptocurrencies worldwide.Follow us on Facebook and Twitter and don't miss any hot news anymore! Do you like our price indices?Last Updated on 21 December, 2019