Tron will lead the crypto-gaming industry and scores new partnershipRepublican Party's candidate for the New York House, David Gokhshtein, stated on his Twitter account that Tron will dominate the crypto-gaming industry in the future. The tweet originated from a commentary by Misha Lederman, co-creator of IAmDecentralized.org on the news of Tron's cooperation with technology giant Samsung.Justin Sun revealed 2 months ago that Tron will be integrated in the Samsung blockchain Keystore SDK v1.2.0. As a result, Samsung's Keystore wallet will be able to process transactions with TRX and 1 billion Samsung users will be able to access Tron-based dApps.Sun gave a recent interview to Forbes about the cooperation entitled "Samsung Embracing TRON And Other Cryptos Just The Start, Says Justin Sun". This interview was the focus of Lederman's reflections on the future of Tron and Gokhshtein's statement.$TRX will dominate the gaming industry.-- David Gokhshtein  (@davidgokhshtein) January 23, 2020Lederman welcomed the news and commented that the Samsung-Tron cooperation will open the door for new opportunities throughout the crypto-industry and added in response to the Republican candidate:Gaming will be the entrance for 100s of millions of new crypto users into the world of blockchain. If done correctly, most won't even know that the game they're playing is running on the blockchain. No chain has the scalability, funding, network & users like TRON does today.On the other hand, Tron continues to score partnerships with important players in different sectors. The newest parnter is the real estate firm XRE Global. The company announced that it will register its properties on the Tron blockchain. In addition, XRE says that the properties shown will be for sale and that they will accept their native XRE token and the TRX token as payment methods.XRE Global seeks to improve the real estate transaction and business model. Through its Twitter account, the company made the following statement:Actual use case is here. We have an actual product to show for our XREGLOBAL project. First house is here. The property will be registered on the Tron blockchain the first house registered on the platform.Tron has partnerships and projects based on its blockchain with enormous potential. For example, its acquisition of the DLive streaming platform could be an uncensored and freer alternative to YouTube. The video platform caused controversy last year when it censored content related to cryptocurrencies. The cryptocommunity asked for a better alternative and Tron may have the answer in DLive.Tron's price trades at $ 0.016 USD, at the time of publication, with losses of 4.03% in the last 24 hours.Follow us on Facebook and Twitter and don't miss any hot news anymore! Do you like our price indices?Last Updated on 24 January, 2020