TRON has a surprise for its users this Valentine’s DayIn a newly publicity stunt, TRON's CEO, Justin Sun has announced that there will be a big surprise announcement for crypto users this February 14, Valentine's Day. Speculation about the possible announcement has not been long in coming and there are rumors of a possible new acquisition or cooperation for the TRON platform.One rumor is the takeover of the blockchain content platform Steemit by Sun. This rumor has been around in the crypto community for quite some time. Sun has commented in the past on the possible acquisition of this platform, without giving a clear refusal that it could happen at a later date.For the time being, Sun only announced the listing of WIN together with its partner Poloniex. The token of the decentralized application WINk will be able to be traded on Poloniex with the pairs $WIN/$USDT, $WIN/$TRX. In celebration, WINk announced that it will hold a competition for its users, in which they can win 200,000 WIN on the Poloniex exchange.I have big news for the #TRON family on Valentine's Day.... What could it be? Can you guess? -- Justin Sun (@justinsuntron) February 14, 2020As usual, rumors about the surprise of Justin Sun are speculation until the official announcement. Some members of the crypto community have been speculating, but the options they handle are many and varied. One user jokingly asked Sun if he will be dating billionaire Warren Buffet, and TRON's CEO replied "LOL". Sun and the billionaire had a dinner last what resulted in a hype that raised the price of TRX by 10%.In recent weeks the rumors about TRON have not stopped. First, after a dinner between the TRON CEO and Steve Wozniak, there was speculation about a possible collaboration with Apple. Then Blockstream CEO Adam Back made a number of positive comments about TRON and also met with Sun. A tweet from Opendime inventor Rodolfo Novak (nvk on Twitter) spread the rumor that the TRON platform could be integrated into the Bitcoin-based Liquid network.For now, everything has been kept in speculation and part of the aggressive marketing campaign that Sun usually does to promote TRON. It remains to be seen if any of these rumors will be confirmed soon.At the time of publication, the price of the TRX stands at $0.025 USD with gains of 7.87% in the last 24 hours.Follow us on Facebook and Twitter and don't miss any hot news anymore! Do you like our price indices?Last Updated on 17 February, 2020