Unstoppable Domains Register websites on the Ethereum blockchainNewcomers to the crypto market are often confronted with the challenge that both the first transfers and the receipt of payments with Ether or other cryptocurrencies are carried out with a queasy feeling. Although there are now many instructions, no sign should be wrong, otherwise the money is lost. There is no bank or other institution that could be contacted in case of a problem.A new startup from the United States of America has taken up the problem and offers a simple practical solution.The San Francisco-based software company "Unstoppable Domains" has made it its business to make sending and receiving payments with cryptocurrencies as easy as possible. The company announces in its latest press release that it has established a domain registry for web sites registered on the Ethereum Blockchain.Users can purchase a .zil or .crypto domain. The special feature is that the website can be linked to a wallet receiving address. This allows an external person or company to simply insert the web page name when sending the transaction without having to know the long string of characters of the wallet receiving address. This simplifies the way transactions can be sent and received.Unstoppable domains act blockchain independent and support domain endings on both the Ethereum blockchain and the Zilliqa blockchain. The company already announced in April this year that further domain extensions will be added to the portfolio.The cryptocurrency community began selling more than 100,000 .zil domains a few hours ago, the company's first domain extension. Users who now buy a .zil.domain with 8 or more characters will receive the .crypto domain of the same name and a voucher per domain for free for a limited time. This special offer runs until 21.10.2019.Matthew Gould, co-founder and CEO of the company, explains that this step can decisively advance the adaptation of cryptocurrencies:We believe that tribalism in the crypto community is slowing down adoption of the technology. .Crypto is a domain name system meant to be used for any cryptocurrency payment and with any cryptocurrency wallet. Sending money to a .crypto domain is a way simpler user experience for the millions of cryptocurrency users that currently have to copy/paste and type in long addresses in order to transact.Domains that are based on the blockchain fulfill many functions that traditional domains cannot perform. These include the following:Last Updated on 12 October, 2019