VeChain faces major decision Election of the Steering CommitteeFor the VeChainThor blockchain a major decision is upcoming this summer. The current term of the Steering Committee ends after two years on June 30th, so new board members have to be elected. The Steering Committee is a very powerful authority in the VeChain ecosystem, making important strategic decisions in the background and representing the interests of the VeChainThor blockchain to the public.The Steering Committee is responsible for the long-term development of the technical infrastructure, business expansion and value enhancement of the VET token. Furthermore, the Steering Committee is responsible for setting the general oversight and framework, including the design of the blockchain's operating rules.Each member of the seven-member Steering Committee represents the VeChain Foundation at various events such as professional associations, academic organizations, industry forums, technical conferences, where they present the VeChain strategy and vision. SC members are also expected to provide strategic guidance for the operation and continuous development of the VeChain Foundation, the blockchain technology and the ecosystem.In accordance with the VeChain Foundation's Governance Charter, candidates for the upcoming summer elections will be nominated in three categories: Existing SC members who are running for the next term, candidates (up to three) who are proposed directly by the Foundation's Committee, and candidates who run publicly. The total number of candidates may not exceed 14 in the final vote of all parties involved.Public candidates must declare their intention to stand for election. They must also go through numerous steps to be nominated for election. Thus, candidates must provide a letter of intent in which they submit a detailed resume with information on identification, profile, education, skills, professional certifications, and present a personal strategy and vision for the VeChainThor blockchain.In the blog post, the VeChain Foundation also presented a schedule for the election of the Steering Committee.In mid-December the governance of the VeChainThor blockchain was amended and partially replaced by VeVote. VeVote is an unchangeable, transparent and decentralized voting platform to record votes on important decisions and make them publicly available. Voting is done via VeVote smart contracts. The result is recorded on the VeChain Thor blockchain and can be viewed via the VeChain Sync app.During the first vote, the steering committee approved the introduction of public voting via the VeVote platform. The approval required at least 5 of 7 votes. In the end, exactly five voted "Yes", while two members abstained.The aim of VeVote and the stakeholder votes is to increase the decentralization of proof of authority-based governance to "meet the needs of regulators, governments and large corporations".Follow us on Facebook and Twitter and don't miss any hot news anymore! Do you like our price indices?Last Updated on 18 February, 2020