World’s First XRP-Based Exchange Launched this WeekEarlier this week, renowned XRP community member @BankXRP tweeted an announcement launching XRP United, the world's first fully XRP-based exchange. The Estonian-based exchange officially went live earlier this week on October 23.So far, the exchange supports three trading pairs: BTC/XRP, ETH/XRP, and BCH/XRP. XMR/XRP will be added once a Monero wallet is integrated into the exchange.Join the iFX EXPO Asia and discover your gateway to the Asian MarketsThe First Full XRP Based Exchange now LIVEXRP United - Launch Video #xrpthebase https://t.co/CHyRCLdbG8 #Ripple #XRPON DISCORD https://t.co/1kVqSwCMpH pic.twitter.com/3M40tI8hER-- ???? ??? (@BankXRP) October 23, 2018Suggested articlesSpectre.ai Launches World's First Hyper-API and Mobile App!Go to article >>Spectre.ai Launches World's First Hyper-API and Mobile App!Go to article >>One of the exchange's apparent creators, who operates under the handle P3T3RIS on XRPchat.com, posted his thanks for the XRP community's support: "Thank you all for your support! @at3n Especially thanks for remembering where I started this project. Our team was well on our way to launch an XRP based exchange already in July, but then the software provider just could not provide what they promised... Dead end and new start, but now we're here."The company behind the exchange has also created and posted several videos advertising the exchange around the internet.However, XRPUnited's website is rather sparse (at least for non-users); the landing page contains only links to log in and sign up along with a badge showing that the company has been registered in Estonia. There is no 'About' or 'Contact' page (at least for non-users.)The launch of the XRP United exchange coincides with reports from Ripple that its revenue from XRP token sales in the third quarter (Q3) of 2018 were double those in the second quarter (Q2) 2018. Specifically, $163.33 million worth of XRP were sold during Q3; $73.53 million in XRP were sold in Q2. Ripple is the company responsible for the creation of XRP; the company also controls a large amount of XRP tokens.Ripple announced last month that it will lead the Securing America's Internet of Value Coalition, a group of crypto startups that has been organized to lobby financial regulators and lawmakers in Washington DC. Ripple has hired bipartisan lobbying firm the Klein/Johnson Group to assist in the initiative. In exchange for their services, Klein/Johnson will be partially paid in XRP tokens.