Wyre enables purchase of Bitcoin and Ethereum via Apple Pay and Google PayA fundamental need of many investors in the crypto market is the fast and easy purchase of cryptocurrencies without having to go through long KYC processes. Before purchasing Bitcoin or Ethereum, users of cryptocurrency exchanges must disclose their personal data. This process can take several days or even weeks.Blockchain payment service provider Wyre now offers a payment solution that allows investors to buy cryptocurrencies without waiting and entering personal data.Wyre V2 allows you to purchase Bitcoin with just a few clicks on a smartphone via Apple Pay or Google Pay. The information already provided by the user and stored in Apple Pay or Google Pay is used to complete the purchase. This information is sufficient to purchase Bitcoin for up to $250 on initial purchase or up to $1,500 for life.If the user wishes to purchase larger quantities, additional documentation must be submitted. The actual purchase and receipt of the cryptocurrency does not take longer than 30 seconds. Wyre has thus created a smart payment solution for the purchase of small amounts of cryptocurrencies that is compatible with regulatory laws worldwide.Wyre V2 consists of a total of three different products. Wyre describes them as follows:The first product can already be used. The other two will follow by the end of October. The creation of an account can be done quickly with two clicks. This makes it very easy for newcomers to the crypto market, who initially want to buy small amounts, to invest in cryptocurrencies.Although the adaptation of Bitcoin continues on a daily basis, there is still a long way to go before Bitcoin can be used in people's everyday lives to buy milk, bread or other everyday goods. Companies like Wyre are playing a key role in lowering the barriers to entry for new investors into the crypto market, leading to wider acceptance. Experts in the industry still see a major problem in a lack of easy access to the crypto market.Last Updated on 22 October, 2019