Adaption Premier League club places Bitcoin logo on jerseyThe adaptation of Bitcoin and cryptocurrencies continues to progress, although the adoption in mainstream media as well as the use in everyday life still has great potential. Another small step may be a smart "marketing move": The English football club Watford FC, which took 11th place in the Premier League last year, will wear the Bitcoin logo on the left sleeve of the jersey.The team's main sponsor is the Sportsbet.io betting platform, which is also responsible for the design and layout of the club shirts. Sportsbet.io's marketing director, Justin Le Brocque, would like to show fans her support for Bitcoin and thank the fans for their great support:The crypto community have been highly supportive of us since we began, so putting the bitcoin logo on the sleeve felt like a fun way to give something back while also showing them our support.All fans and supporters of the club can come to a Watford fan shop and have the Bitcoin logo printed on the sleeve for free. This promotes the club's sense of togetherness as well as the adaptation of Bitcoin and cryptocurrencies.Bring your home or away shirt to either the Vicarage Road or @intuwatford stores and get the @Bitcoin logo printed for free! pic.twitter.com/NA0B7vjDUq-- Watford Football Club (@WatfordFC) September 12, 2019Brocque further describes that Bitcoin and crypto currencies currently receive too little attention and that the company has therefore decided to replace the company logo with the Bitcoin logo. This cooperation was concluded with the aim of informing the general public about the potential and advantages as well as disadvantages of cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin. Above all, the circulating rumours and myths that put Bitcoin in a bad light are to be finally dispelled::Some of the biggest challenges we and others like us face is raising awareness, dispelling common myths around cryptos and educating the public on the advantages and opportunities presented by cryptocurrencies. Our partnership with Watford marks a major disruption in the world of traditional sports sponsorship, and by adding the Bitcoin logo we hope this world's first partnership will create even more buzz around cryptocurrencies.The Premier League is one of the oldest football leagues in the world. Every year, millions of fans watch their favourite teams on TV, in the stadium, on the radio or via livestream on the Internet. According to official Premier League figures, the number of viewers increased again last year by 74%:Of course, these figures don't guarantee that every viewer will get to grips with Bitcoin in detail, but there is a greater chance that Bitcoin will become more in the public eye and find more followers.The more people and institutions know and use Bitcoin, the more likely it is that new capital will flow into the market. Especially the increase of the unique Bitcoin addresses as well as the hash rate are regarded as important factors to ensure a healthy growth in the next years.At the moment, new forecasts are again making the rounds that the Bitcoin price could rise to USD 200,000 in the foreseeable future. This statement comes from Bobby Lee, co-founder of BTCC, who explained his forecast in an interview with Yahoo Finance UK. However, he didn't give an exact time span, but held himself relatively bold with "a few months to a few years".At the time of writing, Bitcoin's price was USD 10,323.97 and has been moving sideways for the last 24 hours.Source: crypto-news-flash.comThe adaptation and actual use of Bitcoin have a decisive influence on the further development of Bitcoin. However, there are a number of other factors that directly influence the price.Last Updated on 11 October, 2019