Barcelona Trading Conference 2019 Kicks OffThe doors for the Barcelona Trading Conference (BTC) have swung opened for what promises to be one of the biggest events of the summer. Held at the International Convention Center of Barcelona, the event is drawing some of the biggest names from around the crypto industry.All eyes will be on Barcelona over the next two days as the leading figures in crypto will be in attendance. The BTC features a robust slate of in-depth panels, workshops, and keynote speeches. This is one event you do not want to miss.Discover the Barcelona Trading Conference - A Top Tier Crypto Trading EventBarcelona continues to grow as a blockchain hub, while quickly becoming a home to numerous accelerators. The city has easily developed into one of the marquee locations in Iberia for crypto investment, making the Barcelona Trading Conference ideally suited."Finance Magnates is proud to launch its inaugural crypto event in one of the most dynamic cities in Europe. The level of local support has been incredible, and we look forward to playing host to such a diverse and star-studded group of attendees and speakers," noted Michael Pearl, Finance Magnates' Director of Content.Every blockchain or crypto event offers something unique to attendees, though seldom are so many big-name executives in the same place simultaneously. The International Convention Center in Barcelona is playing host to a full array of speakers, which can be viewed in more detail by accessing the following link.Suggested articlesSpectre.ai Launches World's First Hyper-API and Mobile App!Go to article >>Spectre.ai Launches World's First Hyper-API and Mobile App!Go to article >>The two-day event also features a variety of granular issues, big-ticket topics, and the most burning questions. Never before has Barcelona played host to an event of this magnitude in the crypto industry, and attendees will be able to meet and learn from each other in what has become a truly dynamic industry.Indeed, the Barcelona Trading Conference is comprised of attendees from around the world. Stay tuned for more updates from the event throughout the day for a live-look into the crypto industry!Stablecoins were the initial focus of the event, kicking off a busy schedule. Industry specialists debated the definition and ramifications of Stablecoins, touching on several key points. According to Ido Sadeh Man, Founder of Saga Foundation offered the bluntest assessment."Stablecoins are not currencies nor does it have a monetary essence and this is by design - they are just renouncing all other functions in favor of stability," he noted.This paved the way for a pivot into Libra as well. According to Mr. Man, "Libra is not a Stablecoin, Facebook would benefit a lot from us thinking it was a Stablecoin however. From a monetary perspective, Libra makes sense, however, I am afraid we may see that the current governance mechanism of Libra may lead to unification, not fragmentation."