Binance launches travel rewards card in partnership with TravelbyBitA new cooperation between Binance and the startup TravelbyBit aims to make payments with cryptocurrencies for travel, something of everyday life. The announcement of the cooperation was made in a publication of Binance's blog, on November 28th of this year.TravelbyBit is also recognized as one of the startups that contributed to the transformation project at Brisbane Airport, Australia. This project made the east the first airport capable of operating with cryptocurrencies.According to the publication, users interested in purchasing the rewards card can pre-register. For this purpose, it is only necessary to enter the page of TraverlbyBit.The startup rewards card will work just like today's prepaid payment cards. Users, by making use of the card, will have access to benefits, discounts and offers. The publication also revealed the cryptocurrencies that can be charged to the card: BTC, BUSD, BNB, ONT. The card may be used:to book flights and hotels through popular online travel sites such as Booking.com, Expedia, Agoda, and Ctrip, as well as TravelbyBit.com.Caleb Yeog, CEO of TravelbyBit, said the initiative seeks to lower the barrier to the adoption of cryptocurrencies:At TravelbyBit, we want to make crypto useable, provide incentives for early adopters, and see crypto adoption grow. We are excited to work closely with Binance to bring crypto payments to travelers around the globe.The card will be launched at the beginning of 2020. The initiative, for now, will start in Asia, Australia and Europe, but plans an expansion in the future.#Binance Partners with @TravelbyBit to Launch Crypto-Backed Travel Rewards CardLoad your travel card with $BTC, $BUSD, $BNB, and $ONT to book flights and hotels all over the world!https://t.co/8BTN30KN4K-- Binance (@binance) November 28, 2019Binance CEO Chanpeng Zhao was the subject of a scandal last week. First, when Binance's account was suspended from the Chinese social network similar to Twitter, Weibo. Later the news portal The Block published news about an alleged raid that would have occurred in a Binance office in China. Although it would correspond to the announcement made by the Central Bank of China, Zhao denied the news.At that time, CNF reported on the controversy. Zhao said he would sue TheBlock. According to Zhao, the news in the media was not only false, but damaged the reputation of the exchange.One of the most recent and important cooperation was established with the Band protocol (BAND). With this alliance Binance supports the Oracle data platform that includes more than 600 pairs of cryptocurrencies.Follow us on Facebook and Twitter and don't miss any hot news anymore! Do you like our price indices?Last Updated on 28 November, 2019