Binance launches Euro trading pairs for Bitcoin, Ethereum and XRPThe Malta-based crypto exchange, Binance, announced today, 3 January, that it has launched trading of Bitcoin (BTC), Ether (ETH), XRP, Binance Coin (BNB), Tether (USDT) and Binance USD (BUSD) for the Euro. In the blog post, Binance writes that the markets are open from 8:00 a.m. (UTC) the same day.This step follows an already massive expansion of deposit, withdrawal and trading options on Binance. It was only in November 2019 that Binance announced its support for Euro deposits and withdrawals. At the same time, trading was announced for the Russian rouble, Ukrainian hryvnia and Kazakh tenge. This was followed by the announcement for the Turkish Lira (TRY).Despite the challenging legal situation, which means that Binance has to grant different levels of freedom depending on the user's country of residence, the managers are optimistic about the future. In a blog post on January 2, Binance CEO, Changpeng "CZ" Zhao, promises that the exchange will support more than 180 Fiat currencies in 2020.One of our key goals for 2020 is to bring crypto to the masses. For this, we aim to enable fiat-to-crypto trading for 180+ fiat currencies.Currently, Binance supports 21 different Fiat currencies worldwide.Source: https://www.binance-cn.com/en/blog/419417682154909696/Binance-2020-New-Year-Message-Building-FoundationsOn Boxing Day, Binance also launched the direct purchase of cryptocurrencies via VISA card. Binance users can bind their Visa cards to their Binance account and use the card to buy cryptocurrencies such as BTC, BNB, ETH and XRP directly on Binance.com. For the time being, however, the service is only available for Visa credit and debit cards issued within the European Economic Area. Support for Mastercard and other currencies are expected to follow in the near future.But Binance is not only planning massive growth in terms of the introduction of new trading pairs and deposit and withdrawal options. Binance Launchpad, Margin Trading, Staking, Lending and many more are also expected to continue to play an important role in 2020.We're obsessed with our community and we hope you know it. With millions of users spread across six continents and 180 countries, we get a lot of product and feature requests. Margin Trading, Staking, Lending, Futures, and even the 125x leverage are all requests we heard, built, and shipped for our community. [...]We always have a number of strategic acquisition discussions in the works, a couple of them are major and will have a significant impact. We will announce it in due time.We always have a number of strategic acquisition discussions in the works, a couple of them are major and will have a significant impact. We will announce it in due time.Despite many accusations and doubts against ICOs, Binance believes Launchpad is a "killer app" to enable fundraising for everyone worldwide and to support money and awareness raising projects:It is our fundamental belief that fundraising on the blockchain is a killer app. This is the first time in human history that people are able to raise money globally, and people across the world can invest in projects they like, a tiny amount if they wish. This draws many scammers as well, but we shall not let a few bad actors destroy a tool that could help so many upcoming entrepreneurs.Follow us on Facebook and Twitter and don't miss any hot news anymore! Do you like our price indices?Last Updated on 3 January, 2020