Bitcoin inventor to deliver keys to $9.2 billion next weekThe lawsuit between the alleged self-appointed Bitcoin founder Craig Wright and the heirs of David Kleiman extends over more than two years. Wright is accused by Kleiman's heirs of embezzling the property rights to the 1.1 million Bitcoin originally produced by Satoshi Nakamoto, as well as the intellectual property rights to the Bitcoin technology.On August 26, 2019, the Kleimans had won the lawsuit for the time being. As a result, Wright was ordered to transfer half of the 1.1 million BTC to Kleiman's heirs. A few days later, however, Wright's lawyers lodged an appeal against the ruling. Since then the case has been reopened. Recently published court documents show a new list of witnesses to testify in the lawsuit.According to Craig Wright, the access keys are kept in the notorious "Tulip Trust". New documents were submitted to the court on 10 January 2020, which even include a Tulip Trust III. In this context, 428 new documents were submitted, which have, however, been sealed by the competent court until further notice and cannot be inspected. Judge Reinhart already expressed doubts as to the authenticity of the Tulip Trust Documents at the time of the ruling in August 2019:All the evidence in the file does not prove that the Tulip Trust exists.In a recent development, US judge Beth Bloom decided that Craig Wright has a whole month to present the key to the sealed document to Tulip Trust. The last day on which the Australian computer scientist Wright can submit the keys is 03 February 2020. The court order states:In light of the Defendant's representations that the bonded courier is scheduled to arrive in January 2020, the Court will permit the Defendant through and including February 3, 2020, to file a notice with the Court indicating whether or not this mysterious figure has appeared from the shadows and whether the Defendant now has access to the last key slice needed to unlock the encrypted file.If the courier in question has actually arrived and Wright can show the keys, the court will not impose any further sanctions for the time being. Although the community has been disappointed so far, Bitcoin SV developer Eli Afram is optimistic and wrote on Twitter that the keys have arrived and will be delivered next week."bonded couriers aren't shadowy... Next week we file."Keys have arrived.-- Eli Afram (@justicemate) January 13, 2020The community is convinced that next week Wright will come up with another excuse to drag out the trial again. Furthermore, it is not conclusively clarified whether Afram's statement refers to the access keys to the said Tulip Trust. Although the community strongly believes this to be the case, it remains to be seen what further developments we will see in the litigation.The legal dispute has caused a worldwide sensation. The rumor mill seems to be driving the price of Bitcoin SV strongly. Within the last 30 days, Bitcoin SV has increased by 121.14% and within the last 24 hours by 25.98% to a price of USD 207.21. However, this pump may quickly turn into a price drop once the litigation is finally resolved.Follow us on Facebook and Twitter and don't miss any hot news anymore! Do you like our price indices?Last Updated on 14 January, 2020