Bitcoin SV Craig Wright refuses to submit 10,000 court-ordered documentsCraig Wright's case against the relatives of his former partner Dave Kleiman has taken a new turn. The self-proclaimed inventor of Bitcoin refuses to file more than 10,000 documents with the court. In a new document filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Florida on February 11, 2020, Wright's attorney presents arguments in support of the refusal.Kleiman's representation had previously asked the court to request the documents as evidence and the court agreed. However, in the recent document, the inventor of Bitcoin SV claims that the documents requested by the opposing party are protected by the client/attorney privilege under Florida law.Because of the length of the request, furthermore, Wright's representation alleges that delivering the documents would involve an enormous effort. Wright's defense would have to contact more than 17 foreign companies and at least 67 lawyers and 81 individual parties. It is even alleged that delivering the requested documents would make Wright violate Australian law. Under this legislation, Wright still has a link to the company it founded in Australia and is prohibited from issuing documents related to this entity even after its dissolution.In addition, Wright's attorneys argues that no valid reasons have been given for the requested documents to be released. Some documents requested, according to Wright, are not even related to the lawsuit and "are not proportionate to the demands of the case":The eighty-one parties referenced above span the globe, and include parties located in the U.S., Australia, and the U.K., all of which are in different time zones and different judicial jurisdictions. Not only would Dr. Wright have to coordinate with each of those parties to provide them with the relevant documents for review, but he would have to bring them up to date on the relevant issue and the nuances of the Florida law on privilege.The above reasons support the request for Wright not to deliver the documents. Wright's legal representation concludes:For all of the foregoing reasons, plaintiffs' request to strip the foreign entities of their attorney-client privilege protections should be denied.One of the most controversial episodes of the case in the crypto-community is related to the Tulip Trust. According to Wright, a messenger was supposed to show up with the keys to Satoshi Nakamoto's Bitcoin funds, which were removed at the beginning of the crypto currency. However, the messenger was "stopped," and Wright later claimed that he was in fact a lawyer. The testimony or actions of the lawyer are also protected by attorney/client privilege and cannot be disclosed.This has generated a lot of debate in the crypto community. The actor William Shatner, known for playing Captain Tiberius Kirk in the popular science fiction series "Star Trek", has been holding a debate for several days with defenders of Wright. The actor said it is very easy for Wright to prove he is Satoshi and not to do so is to waste the court's time. Wright's defenders argue that the case is supported by the claim that Craig Wright and Satoshi Nakamoto are the same person. Shatner denied these claims and claimed that the case is only about the whereabouts of a number of Bitcoin that disappeared after Dave Kleiman's death.No, I actually read the original court filing (Case #18-cv-80176)  It's quite clear why he's being sued.  The claim is that after the cryptographers death a number of bitcoins were moved and some documents were produced suggesting that the coins were traded for stock in a company https://t.co/iicu7pqVrJ-- William Shatner (@WilliamShatner) February 11, 2020Follow us on Facebook and Twitter and don't miss any hot news anymore! Do you like our price indices?Last Updated on 14 February, 2020