Bitcoin development is driven by grants from Square Crypto led by Jack DorseyThe payment company Square Crypto announced that it will be providing new grants for the development of Bitcoin. The company is led by Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey and is focused on driving the adoption of Bitcoin and the Lightning Network forward.According to the publication in Medium, the grants are intended for all developers who want to contribute to Bitcoin. In addition, the terms of the grant will allow developers to work on Bitcoin in a free way and under their own terms:If you don't have the financial means to build financial freedom for others, a Square Crypto Grant could be what you need.In the past, the company's grant program has given financial support to BTCPayServer and ZmnSCPxj. In September 2019, the BTCPay Foundation received $100,000 to support the development of Bitcoin. The only condition of the grant is that the software must be open source and free.Square also announced that it awarded two grants to Jon Atack and Tankred Hase. The first developer has been working for a year on Bitcoin Core, while Tankred has been working on a UX-focused project to simplify the self-custody of small amounts of Bitcoin by creating a public key server.First grant goes to @jonatack, the bitcoin dev who looks the most like he could body you at Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 2. Jon's been doing Core dev work for almost a year. He'll still be doing Core dev work, but now he'll be getting paid for it.-- Square Crypto (@sqcrypto) March 4, 2020To participate in this round of grant selection, developers can participate individually or in teams as long as they have a Bitcoin-based project. In addition, applicants can participate from anywhere in the world to improve any of the following aspects of Bitcoin: security, UX, scalability, privacy, or any other aspect that makes a significant contribution. Participants must have a good reputation in the Bitcoin community and the projects must be open source and not commercially motivated. Square published the following list of projects that might interest them:Improvements to private key management.Development of bitcoin wallet libraries like coin selection and compact block filters.Privacy implementations such as SNICKER or Payjoin coinjoins.Strengthening p2p networking in Core or light clients.Layer 2 solutions that are separate from LN or complementary to it.Improvements to mining robustness and decentralization.Developing a wallet for the needs of a specific region of the world.Fuzz testing Core to improve its security and robustness.All applications should be sent to the following email address: grants@squarecrypto.org. Square has not established an expiration period for the receipt of applications. The company will respond to participants who have a proposal that they find exciting and meets the requirements.Follow us on Facebook and Twitter and don't miss any hot news anymore! Do you like our price indices?Last Updated on 5 March, 2020