BTC 2019 Welcomes KoreConEx’s Jofre to Digital Assets PanelKoreConX Co-Founder and CEO Oscar Jofre will take part in a digital assets panel at the Barcelona Trading Conference. Jofre is slated to participate in the session entitled "Security Tokens: Current Status and Next Trends" on July 10th, which will explore the future of asset tokenization and the outlook for Security Token offerings. STOs have been suggested as a replacement for ICOs, but are just beginning to see mainstream acceptance such as exchange listings.KoreConX has been described as the first highly-secure permissioned blockchain ecosystem for fully-compliant digital securities worldwide. In addition to founding this company, Jofre has been a pioneer in the field of tokenized securities and has been a major proponent for the adoption of stricter compliance standards for the Crypto community. According to the noted entrepreneur and technology specialist, "Investor protection must be our number one priority today for tokenization to occur."Discover Barcelona Trading Conference - A Top Tier Crypto Trading EventDuring an interview with Security Token Academy, Jofre explained the role of transfer agents like KoreConX and how they go beyond the mere role of custodianship by saying, "Even though they sign the subscription agreement online, how many people read the hundred pages? They just get the bullet points. Maybe it allows you to do this, this and that, but people don't actually read the fine detail. And it's the details that actually, down the line go 'Hey can I do this? Can I do that?'"Suggested articlesSpectre.ai Launches World's First Hyper-API and Mobile App!Go to article >>Spectre.ai Launches World's First Hyper-API and Mobile App!Go to article >>"The transfer agent is to check some balances. With again the custodian, we're making sure that yes, okay that's great. It's great that you read the core contract and it said that this individual fits the KYC, they're coming from that country, they can buy it, so forth. But we still have to double check it. It's one thing you telling me. I'm the one that finally said add it to the cap table. Once it gets added to the cap table, I can't just erase it."Along with launching the KoreConX all-in-one insurance platform, Jofre is also an accomplished Fintech speaker and writer. He is a member of the U.S. based Crowdfunding Intermediary Regulatory Advocates (CFIRA) and is currently listed as one of the Top 10 Global Thought Leaders in Equity Crowdfunding. Jofre has also received numerous awards, including the Vision 2012 Business Man of the Year by the Toronto Hispanic Chamber of Commerce.This digital assets panel will cover the latest developments in tokenization security. It is expected to be the largest event of its kind aimed specifically at the Crypto trading industry, with more than 3000 attendees and dozens of elite speakers and exhibitors. We invite you to check out our full lineup or reserve your spot today!