Cardano Tentative dates for OBFT hard fork and Shelley mainnet are setThe creator of Cardano Charles Hoskinson gave an update on the most important upcoming events of the cryptocurrency. According to him, February will be a crucial month in the development of Cardano. Hoskinson said that the tentative date for the Ouroboros Byzantine Fault Tolerance (OBFT) hard fork will be the 20th of this month. However, Hoskinson stated and reiterated several times that it is still a tentative date. Beginning February 20 and depending on the progress of the hard fork, Cardano's team will decide whether to proceed with the subsequent stages of the Shelley phase:The hard fork OBFT, tentatively, tentatively, I said it three times because people tend to ignore that, it looks like the date is going to be February 20th. Originally we thought it would be the 14th but we wanted a few extra days for certain partners. So we suspect that February 20th is when we're going to do the hard fork.Hoskinson said the update looks good in every way, but they are willing to postpone the date if they find a problem or if one of Cardano's partners requests an extension. The update will allow Cardano to use a new consensus protocol based on BFT. The hard fork is expected for a long time and will bring the protocol from the Byron phase a first step towards the Shelley phase.In addition, after the fork, Cardano will launch the Byron reboot with Haskell wallet backend. Hoskinson said that this launch will be the most important event since the introduction of Cardano in September 2017:This is the most significant release since we released the software in September of 2017. It is a 100% re-written code, security audited, built with formal methods and it's a 100% built in-house. It looks like it is going to be after the OBFT hard fork, but probably won't be pushed into March.The Shelley mainnet will be released in March or April, but Hoskinson re-emphasized that this date depends on the progress of the mentioned updates. However, according to Hoskinson, a more precise date should be fixed by the end of February.In February of this year, Cardano released two new versions of the Jormungandr node software 0.8.8. and 0.8.9. The first version mainly fixed bootstrapping problems and the second one fixed booting problems on the Cardano network. Hoskinson said that these updates have solved most of the problems reported by users, but that a new update will be needed to solve all issues.However, the Cardano team decided to move the new update to next week. The creator of Cardano also said that they will give more details this Friday, February 7. Hoskinson said it will be an expanded update that will involve chain selection, logging and has required a lot of re-engineering by the Cardano team.Below, you can watch the video update with Charles Hoskinson:Follow us on Facebook and Twitter and don't miss any hot news anymore! Do you like our price indices?Last Updated on 4 February, 2020