Cardano launches new video format – Tour cancelled due to CoronavirusCharles Hoskinson, CEO of IOHK, announced the release of the first video on the Cardano product development. Hoskinson stated that product development updates will be made every month. All updates will be made by Cardano project managers where they explain more details to the community. This new type of video series will start this month. Hoskinson says:Cardano is an iceberg. There are many things that happen below the surface, delicate things, interesting things that are often not broadcast to the community. It's important that we build a single true source.Hoskinson hopes for greater involvement from the Cardano community. He explained that the format of the video is being reviewed, and they will consider a more efficient way to spread it. He said that all future videos will be longer and could be live broadcasts so that project leaders can answer questions from the community.In this first video, important members of the Cardano team were introduced: Aparna Jue, Kevin Hammond, Darko Mijic, Nick Nayfack, Nebojsa Vojvodic and Rob Cohen. Each spoke about their experience, their reasons for joining Cardano and gave a brief account of the product they are managing.On the other hand, Hoskinson revealed that part of the Cardano team's tour of Asia and Africa had to be cancelled. According to the IOHK CEO, the Africa tour will be moved to May. The team has decided to wait for the evolution of the situation, alerts from specialized organizations and the possible launch of the first vaccine against the virus. Hoskinson said:We decided to move the Africa tour tentatively to May. Mainly because of travel restrictions. We are at a crucial point and in the next 4 or 6 weeks it will be possible to determine if the Coronavirus is a global pandemic (...) or, if it will be like the SARS outbreak in 2003 and will eventually be contained (...)Cardano's network achieved a major accomplishment recently. The implementation of the OBFT hard fork was completed without any problems and the IOHK is now focused on the Byron reboot update. This upgrade will be the second major milestone for the launch of the Shelley phase. Besides, new features were introduced to the Daedalus wallet that will allow for a better user experience.Below you can see the first product development update from Cardano:Follow us on Facebook and Twitter and don't miss any hot news anymore! Do you like our price indices?Last Updated on 1 March, 2020