Cardano supports Twitter’s vision for a decentralized social media platformTwitter CEO Jack Dorsey announced yesterday that his social media platform will be the first to rely entirely on open source code. Dorsey wants to lead the way in setting a good example for an open, uncensored and decentralized Internet.As it became known yesterday, Twitter has founded Blue Sky to develop a new decentralized protocol for Twitter. The company's CTO, Parag Agrawal, will lead the project and will hire up to five developers to realize the vision of a decentralized Twitter.Dorsey says he was inspired by a proposal by Techdirt founder Mike Masnick to promote the "protocols not platforms" approach to the World Wide Web. Decentralized Twitter is designed to solve some of the problems of centralized platforms, such as censorship or the enforcement of global policies to combat misuse and misleading information.Agrawal pointed out on Twitter that blockchain technology has all the necessary prerequisites to implement the vision.3 - The traditionally slow and deliberate consensus-building approach to evolving standards might fail to keep up with a rapidly changing ecosystem and set of consumer needs.-- Parag Agrawal (@paraga) December 11, 2019With Cardano, Charles Hoskinson has also created a decentralized ecosystem that wants to solve complex problems of the financial world through the use of blockchain. He announced that he would support Dorsey on all issues and obstacles:I'm in Jack. Just let me know what you need.So far Parag Agrawal is the only employee of the project and is currently looking for a Tech-Lead who is in the best case a blockchain veteran with a good sense for social media.Following yesterday's announcement, the Cardano Foundation has strengthened its community management by appointing J. Casey Monroe as the new Senior Community Engagement and Strategy Lead with immediate effect and Tiago Fernandes Serodio as the new Community Project Manager. The foundation wants to create a healthy growth and fully meet the increasing demand and use of the forum, as well as other channels.Monroe is the first community management team member based in America and has 12 years of experience in building and running communities. Prior to joining the Cardano Foundation, Monroe held various senior content and community management positions with heavyweights such as Toyota, Google and Wowhead. The foundation continues (freely translated):The combination of Casey and Tiago's skills and experiences will help the Cardano Foundation to enhance community management and pivot the focus towards adoption and use cases; thus, strengthen our position in the blockchain industry.Most recently, Cardano successfully completed the Balance Snapshot of the test network. This created the basis for ADA owners to participate in staking by holding ADA in the test network and earn "real" coins. In addition, owners can join a staking pool and delegate their vote if they do not want to operate their own staking pool.Cardano's price has seen a slight downtrend (- 1%) in the last 24 hours to a price of USD 0.0363.Follow us on Facebook and Twitter and don't miss any hot news anymore! Do you like our price indices?Last Updated on 12 December, 2019