Cardano Foundation to develop blockchain infrastructure in AfricaIn a press release, the Cardano Foundation has unveiled its latest plans to work with more than 50 countries in Africa. The goal of the cooperation will be to create a blockchain governance. In this way, the Cardano Foundation would be contributing to create a means of sustainable development and growth for the continent.According to the publication, Cardano's initiative will be an extension of the development program implemented in Asia and Europe. In those regions, the work of the Cardano Foundation has been used in legislative bodies and commercial areas.On this occasion, the cooperation with African countries could improve and increase levels of trade. To achieve this, according to Nathan Kaiser, a member of the Cardano Foundation, the work must be accompanied by a clear legal framework that allows for development. Kaiser, stated the following:Legislation is key to adoption and real use cases of blockchain. The Cardano Foundation is proud to be at the forefront of shaping blockchain-enabled sustainable growth in Africa.Kaiser also highlighted the Cardano Foundation's willingness to work with the African continent. One of its missions will be to create robust laws and governance policies that accompany the work of growth through blockchain technology. Cardano's representative said that they want tohelp African nations to shape legislative and commercial standards while ensuring accountability, which in turn will create new jobs and ensure sustainable growth.One of the challenges will undoubtedly be to find effective means to improve local economies. A goal they hope to achieve using blockchain technology.The Cardano Foundation will continue to work, according to the publication, for other countries on the continent to join this initiative. To that end, they continue to build alliances with African institutions. Among them are the University of Mauritius, the Economic Development Board of the African Leadership Centre, the Swiss Embassy, the Swiss Federation for Blockchain, and many others.As mentioned above, the Cardano Foundation has a proven track record in providing support to countries and regions that wish to implement blockchain technology. Above all, they have worked to improve the adoption of cryptocurrencies and the technology behind them.However, the issue of a better legal framework for regulating cryptocurrencies remains vitally important for greater adoption. Other voices have raised concerns about this issue. One of them is Ripple CEO Brad Garlinghouse.Ripple has decided to work closely with the Alliance for Innovative Regulation (AIR) to ensure that cutting-edge technologies have legislation to drive them, rather than stifle them. To this end, it has also established a subsidiary in Washington.Cardano's price is currently at $ 0.038 USD with a downtrend of 6.65% in the last 24 hours.Follow us on Facebook and Twitter and don't miss any hot news anymore! Do you like our price indices?Last Updated on 21 November, 2019