Coinbase Pro Adds 3 New Altcoins Augur (REP), EOS, & Maker (MKR)Coinbase Pro, the professional branch of crypto wallet and exchange service Coinbase, has added trading support for three new assets: Maker (MKR), Augur (REP), and EOS (EOS). The addition of the altcoins was announced in a blog post on Monday, April 8.Inbound transfers for EOS, MKR and REP are now available in the regions where trading is supported. Traders cannot place orders and no orders will be filled. Order books will be in transfer-only mode for a minimum of 12 hours. https://t.co/pUlU8fppAdDiscover Barcelona Trading Conference - A Top Tier Crypto Trading Event-- Coinbase Pro (@CoinbasePro) April 8, 2019However, there are some geographical limits imposed on where these assets can be traded. EOS and Augur are available in all of Coinbase Pro's jurisdictions except for New York state, while Maker can only be traded by Coinbase Pro users located outside of the United States.Suggested articlesSpectre.ai Launches World's First Hyper-API and Mobile App!Go to article >>Spectre.ai Launches World's First Hyper-API and Mobile App!Go to article >>The blog post explained that at first, Coinbase Pro would only be accepting deposits of EOS, Maker, and Augur. Trading will begin once sufficient liquidity has been established, and at least twelve hours have passed (since deposits began to be accepted.)Then, full-fledged trading will be rolled out in three additional stages. The 'post-only' stage will allow Coinbase Pro investors and clients to place limit orders for trading pairs that include XRP; this phase will last for a minimum of one minute. Following the 'post-only' stage, the 'limit-only' stage will match the limit orders, but not market orders. This phase will last for a minimum of 10 minutes.Finally, full trading will be launched. All services will be made available during this stage, including market and stop orders.The addition of these assets onto Coinbase Pro does not seem to have caused any significant upward movement in their prices. Over the last 24 hours, Maker has lost 6.75 percent; EOS has lost 0.89 percent of its value, and Augur is down by 4.65 percent (data from Coinmarketcap.)The announcement comes recently after Coinbase Pro decided to add two other altcoins to its platform, including XRP and Stellar Lumens.