Coinbase Tezos holders earn profits of 5% per yearIn an announcement dated November 6, Coinbase reported that it will give a 5% reward to Tezos holders. The benefit will be granted by staking automatically.Users living in the United States, Coinbase said, may receive the reward after a two-month period. It will be automatically distributed to all XTZ holders after a certain period.The announcement occurs as part of the process that Tezos has introduced to his proof-of-stake protocol. The profit percentage has been determined by Coinbase at 5%, passively obtained by making deposits and keeping your XTZ tokens on the platform.It is expected that from the announcement and implementation of the proof-of-stake algorithm, that the security and the processes of the token XTZ in the blockchain are optimized. Gains will be proportional to the amount of assets the user maintains on the Coinbase platform, based on the percentage announced annually.Coinbase's initiative occurs after the introduction of its staking service. The platform would be looking to give a more dynamic role to its users and reward them for maintaining their assets on Coinbase.The measure also corresponds to an expansion in Coinbase's services. Recently, they have also announced that USD Coin holders will be able to receive annual rewards of 1.25% for the usefulness of their tokens.The exchange platform has been recognized for having a more active role in the way it interacts and rewards its users. While it seeks to have a positive impact on the change of regulatory policies from the U.S. government towards the cryptomarket.Tezos has seen an increase in its price due to different factors. First, the expectation of the world conference of Tezos. The event would have generated a positive XTZ price gain. On the other hand, Coinbase's announcement could continue to increase the price of the cryptocurrency, giving positive gains to its holders. Among other developments reported by CNF.The price of Tezos has had an excellent performance and, at the time of publishing the article, it stands at 1.18 USD with gains of 22% in the last 24 hours. The trend for this cryptocurrency seems to be bullish in all its indicators. It remains to be seen how Coinbase's announcement will influence the future of the XTZ token.Last Updated on 7 November, 2019