Could a XRP-backed stablecoin really support Ripple’s growthIndependent rating agency Weiss Crypto Ratings made a controversial posting on its Twitter account. According to the publication, Weiss suggests that stablecoins could be a better solution for making cross-border payments than Ripple's financial products.The payment company made a partnership with payment service provider Anzimo to use its On Demand Liquidity (ODL) solution. Anzimo will process transfers in the payment corridor to the Philippines. Weiss Crypto stated that Anzimo will make faster payments with Ripple's ODL. However, the agency said that using a stablecoin is a better alternative:USDT is more liquid than XRP. This would have been a novelty in 2015. Now there are better options than XRP for moving fiat around.Ripple's community reacted negatively to Weiss Crypto's tweet. User Galgitron shared a post pointing out the advantages of Ripple versus stablecoins. First, he claimed that the term "stablecoin" is misleading. He also added that stablecoins are not more secure than other assets:(...) there's nothing about stablecoins that make them more stable or safer than whatever they are supposed to represent, it's just the exchange rate that remains stable, but that's not obvious, particularly to newb investors.Galgitron claims that stablecoins are not a threat to Ripple. The user claims that there is a lack of understanding about the differences between cross-border and domestic payments. Ripple's products are superior in this respect, according to Galgitron. The explains that stablecoins do not in practice offer greater liquidity:The common misconception is that stablecoins are going to eliminate all of the problems related to X-border payments, but stablecoins are merely just faster versions of the underlying fiat. They don't inherently generate liquidity, they don't create new pairings/corridors, but most importantly, they don't eliminate nostro/vostro. Sure, stablecoins could eliminate the need for Country A to have foreign assets in a bank account in Country B, but that just means Country A would need to hold those foreign funds themselves, and would need to do so for each country.The user adds that in the future there is a possibility that stablecoins will be supported by XRP and Ripple's payment solutions. But he stresses that this feature will only be effective if combined with Ripple's XRPL technology. Galgitron concludes that a XRP-backed stablecoin would give a boost to the adoption and demand for XRP.Follow us on Facebook and Twitter and don't miss any hot news anymore! Do you like our price indices?Last Updated on 1 March, 2020