Craig Wright Receives Court Order to Disclose His BTC AddressesA court in the United States ordered Crag Wright, the self-proclaimed Satoshi Nakamoto, to provide a list of his public Bitcoin addresses.The order by the District Court of the Southern District of Florida is a part of the ongoing case against Wright filed by the estate of Dave Kleiman last year. The allegations concern the ownership of between 550,000 and 1.1 million Bitcoins, as well as the intellectual property rights of various blockchain technologies. The coins were worth around $5 billion at the time of filing the lawsuit.Discover Barcelona Trading Conference - A Top Tier Crypto Trading EventThe publically available court document showed that the plaintiffs asked for an order to produce the public Bitcoin addresses the Australian entrepreneur owned as of December 31, 2013. In addition, the court asked Wright to identify all digital coins allegedly transferred by him to a blind trust in 2011 along with evidence of the same."On or before May 15, 2019, at 5:00 p.m. Eastern time, Dr. Wright shall produce all transactional records of the blind trust, including but not limited to any records reflecting the transfer of bitcoin into the blind trust in or about 2011. The production shall be accompanied by a sworn declaration of authenticity," the court order noted.Suggested articlesSpectre.ai Launches World's First Hyper-API and Mobile App!Go to article >>Spectre.ai Launches World's First Hyper-API and Mobile App!Go to article >>He is also ordered to identify current and past trustees and beneficiaries of the blind trust."In essence, he does not argue undue burden, he argues impossibility. The argument that Dr. Wright is incapable of providing an accurate listing of his current or historical bitcoin holdings was never presented in any of the prior hearings before this Court when the Court was crafting the scope of discovery," the order added.Wright has become the center of controversy in the crypto community. After a claim by Wired that Wright might be the creator of Bitcoin in late 2015, he announced himself as Satoshi Nakamoto in an interview with BBC in May 2016.However, his claim backfired and resulted in a backlash from the Bitcoin community. He also split Bitcoin's chain to launch a new fork of the coin - Bitcoin Satoshi Vision (BSV) - which was recently delisted by many major exchanges amid some controversial actions of Wright on social media.