Don’t Miss the BTC Welcome Party Tomorrow NightThe Barcelona Trading Conference (BTC) will be starting tomorrow night. The event will be held at the International Convention Center, between July 9-11, kicked off by a Welcome Party at the Ivy Lounge.Hosted by Finance Magnates, the Barcelona Trading Conference serves as a gathering and meeting point for the industry's marquee executives and key players. To learn more about the event, it's agenda, and speaker list, make sure to access the following link.Discover the Barcelona Trading Conference - A Top Tier Crypto Trading EventeToro and Finance Magnates are joining forces to host a luxurious Welcome Party, in cooperation with 21M Capital, Simplex and Saga at the Ivy Lounge, tomorrow in the heart of Barcelona. Stay cool in the summer heat with some drinks on July 9, starting at 21:00 local time.The party has free entrance. All you have to do is RSVP as space is limited. Confirmed attendance for the Welcome Party has grown to include many registrants already, so make sure to inquire today and not be left out.Make sure to start your week off right with some music, drinks, and entertainment.Every blockchain or crypto event offers something unique to attendees, though seldom are so many big-name executives in the same place simultaneously. The International Convention Center in Barcelona will play host to a full slate of speakers, which can be seen in more detail by accessing the following link.Suggested articlesSpectre.ai Launches World's First Hyper-API and Mobile App!Go to article >>Spectre.ai Launches World's First Hyper-API and Mobile App!Go to article >>In addition, crypto aficionados will revel in the diverse suite of panels and sessions on offer, with the full schedule available for viewing. A variety of granular issues, big-ticket issues, and burning questions will be touched on and more.The Barcelona Trading Conference will also feature attendees from around the world. Never before has Barcelona played host to an event of this magnitude in the crypto industry, and attendees will be able to meet and learn from each other in what has become a truly dynamic industry.Barcelona is quickly becoming a home to numerous accelerators. The city has easily developed into one of the marquee locations in Iberia for crypto investment, making the Barcelona Trading Conference ideally suited.Make sure not to miss one of the most important events in the space in 2019. If you have not already done so, make sure to familiarize yourself with the event's website and reserve your seat today for one of the biggest conferences of the year!  