DX.Exchange Launches ICO Demo Slam at the London Summit 2018For all the recent dips and bloodbaths, investors are still looking for crypto projects that could pay off in the long run. This quest has now prompted DX.Exchange to host an ICO pitch in the hopes of finding promising projects. Held at the London Summit 2018's Crypto Trading Floor, the demo slam will feature a total of eight to ten projects, which will be competing for a free listing on the exchange at its launch - a perk worth $250,000.Join the iFX EXPO Asia and discover your gateway to the Asian MarketsThe pitch will be held on November 14 at the Old Billingsgate's Vaults and is aimed at projects with a solid token model and proven traction.The competition is a great way for companies which go through an initial coin offering process to pitch their project to investors, to bolster industry connections and relationships, and to have an exhibition area at the event. Most importantly, the winner's coin will be added to DX.Exchange's offerings with a free listing."We are looking for revolutionary projects that solve big problems, improve the crypto ecosystem, and have the potential to disrupt industries using decentralized technology," said DX.Exchange's CEO, Daniel Skowronski.The exchange is now receiving applications and token projects can submit their application in the form below.Loading...Suggested articlesSpectre.ai Launches World's First Hyper-API and Mobile App!Go to article >>Spectre.ai Launches World's First Hyper-API and Mobile App!Go to article >>DX.Exchange's team will review applications and will publish the shortlist of ten token projects. Each final project will have a 10-minute slot during the day to showcase their wares and win the audience and judges over. The winner will be announced in DX.Exchange's area at the event's Crypto Trading Floor. The winning project will receive not only eternal fame but also a free listing at the exchange, which boasts over 500K users.The pitch is part of the London Summit, Europe's largest event for the financial services sector. Since 2016, the summit has included a growing crypto focus. Held at the Old Billingsgate on November 13-14, the London Summit 2018 offers the largest cryptocurrency trading industry gathering, creating opportunities for learning, meeting contacts and forging new business ties.Specifically, DX.Exchange will participate in a panel discussion charting the choppy waters of crypto trading. Along with market leaders from Coinfloor, SeedCX, and others, the exchange's CEO Daniel Skowronski will weigh in on various trading models and their implications for retail and institutional traders.An estimated 3,000 participants are expected to be in attendance this year, making the event truly one of the largest in Europe. Can't get enough of ICOs or crypto? With new regulations, a more defined structure, and larger demands from clients, the cryptocurrency industry will be a primary area of focus at the London Summit. Don't miss your chance to sign up today.