eBay Denies Rumors of Accepting Crypto as PaymentE-commerce giant eBay has debunked rumors that it would introduce crypto payments option on its platform, according to a Bloomberg report.On May 12, a leaked image of an eBay advertisement surfaced which showed the company's prospect of adding crypto payments option along with the existing ones.Discover Barcelona Trading Conference - A Top Tier Crypto Trading Event Virtual currencies.
Digital currencies.
Cryptocurrencies.
Digitalisation continuing.Ebay!Latest rumour & a picture.Some more positive news coming up? ?$BTC #BITCOIN #CRYPTO pic.twitter.com/RcNQA9I3GwSuggested articlesSpectre.ai Launches World's First Hyper-API and Mobile App!Go to article >>Spectre.ai Launches World's First Hyper-API and Mobile App!Go to article >>-- Crypto Michael (@CryptoMichNL) May 12, 2019
Addressing the ongoing rumors directly, a spokesperson of the company told Bloomberg: "Cryptocurrency is not accepted as a form of payment on the eBay platform, nor is it part of our payments strategy."eBay is one of the largest online marketplaces with around 179 million active users around the world. A move by the company in favor of digital currency would give a massive boost to the industry.Though the company denied the rumors, many experts believe that it had already contributed to the recent Bitcoin price rally.Since April, Bitcoin has maintained a bullish run. The coin has surged 32 percent in the last 7 days to go above $8,000, according to Coinmarket.com. This turned out to be a huge boost for the community as the coin touched $3,200 in mid-December, exactly after a year of touching its all-time peak at around $20,000.While the e-commerce company is hesitant to jump into the crypto sphere, social media giants are betting big on blockchain and digital currencies. Bloomberg earlier revealed that Facebook is working on the development of a native digital currency which it will roll out across its various social media platforms - Facebook, Messanger, WhatsApp, and Instagram.Meanwhile, many major brands this week confirmed that they are going to accept cryptocurrencies on their platform. Whole Foods Market, Barnes & Noble and Bed Bath & Beyond recently announced their partnership with Spedn, an app which facilitates crypto transactions.