Enterprise Ethereum Alliance announces launch of testnetThe EEA is a worldwide association of prominent companies from the tech industry that have set themselves the goal of advancing the development of the Ethereum blockchain technology. This conglomerate is the largest open source blockchain consortium in the world, which aims to deliver enterprise-ready software based on the Ethereum blockchain that can handle the most complex and demanding requirements of the corporate world.Yesterday the EEA announced that through a cooperation with Whiteblock the first official testnet has been launched. Zak Cole, CEO of Whiteblock and chairman of the EEA Testing and Certification Working Group, said:The EEA TestNet will enable members to collaborate and understand how Ethereum systems perform at scale in a deterministic and controlled manner.Under the partnership, EEA will use the Whiteblock-Genesis testplatform to provide and manage EEA's official testnet. Genesis was launched yesterday and offers users the opportunity to pilot a whole range of end-to-end blockchain tests and development scenarios and to gain initial experience and results.The testnet will enable the global business community to build, test and evaluate Ethereum's next generation business applications. Participating actors can set up their own nodes and develop dApps. The EEA testnet will also support Metamask and provide full data and analysis capabilities. EA Executive Director Ron Resnick describes:The EEA's business-focused approach enables the broader Ethereum business community to collaborate, innovate, and contribute to the evolution of world-class Ethereum solutions. The EEA's testnet brings us one step closer to creating an ecosystem that offers application availability from multiple vendors of choice.It is also possible to verify the requirements of companies within the testnet and thus to check the feasibility of projects in advance. The scalability and related key figures, such as transactions per second and other performance requirements can be determined quickly and easily in the testnet.In addition, security tests, such as the simulation of a 51% attack, can be carried out. Stress tests on smart contracts are also possible to measure gas costs and to understand the limits of the system under different conditions. Migration tests can also be simulated. The launch of the testnet marks another milestone in the still young history of EEA.Ethereum provides a complex ecosystem that many big tech giants like Microsoft or Amazon already use with its web services. Ethereum also continues to be the leading network in the field of distributed applications, accounting for 55% of the total transaction volume of the dApps market. In 2019, ETH generated sales of USD 12.8 billion, followed by EOS with USD 6.1 billion and TRON with USD 4.4 billion.However, Ethereum leads not only in terms of transaction volume, but also in categories: Number of dApps, active dApps, new dApps and active dApp users. With 1.82 million active dApp users, Ethereum has almost twice as many users as TRON.Ethereum's price follows the current market trend and has fallen 1.33% in the last 24 hours, to a price of USD 161.06.Follow us on Facebook and Twitter and don't miss any hot news anymore! Do you like our price indices?Last Updated on 16 January, 2020