eToro Joins London Summit’s Crypto Trading FlooreToro joins the London Summit 2018's Crypto Trading Floor, cementing its foray into cryptocurrencies. As part of its presence at the event, the global investment platform will host educational sessions with analysts and offer insight into peer-to-peer crypto payments, as well as market outlooks for the leading cryptocurrencies.eToro's Founder and CEO, Yoni Assia, will also be giving a keynote speech showcasing opportunities in crypto.Join the iFX EXPO Asia and discover your gateway to the Asian MarketsHeld at the Old Billingsgate on November 13-14, the London Summit 2018 offers the standard trading industry gathering for learning, meeting contacts and creating new business. An estimated 3,000 are expected to be in attendance this year, making the event one of the largest in Europe.eToro's inclusion as a sponsor of the Crypto Trading Floor comes as little surprise, given its growing focus on crypto. The retail trading venue has consistently leveraged a focus on the crypto trading space, including launching partnerships with upwards of seven landmark football teams, setting a London based office, and announcing a similar plan for the US, a lucrative crypto market.Suggested articlesSpectre.ai Launches World's First Hyper-API and Mobile App!Go to article >>Spectre.ai Launches World's First Hyper-API and Mobile App!Go to article >>The Crypto Trading Floor is the London Summit's newest addition, bringing together traders, exchanges, and industry startups, all part of the vibrant crypto community. Of note, this event will cater not just to industry participants but also cryptocurrency traders as well.The summit will also feature individuals from leading retail FX brokers, investment banks, fintech startups, and crypto service providers. The Crypto Trading Floor's two key sponsors will be eToro along with DX Exchange, an emerging exchange that boasts a Nasdaq-powered matching engine. DX Exchage will be holding a token projects pitch, showcasing some of the most exciting upshot firms. The Floor will be held at the Vault, the same place as the Summit's Networking Blitz.The Crypto Trading Floor will host several other notable speeches and panels touching on a variety of cryptocurrency topics. Coinbase's CEO (UK) Zeeshan Feroz will be delving into the creation of an open financial system that is facilitated by blockchain and cryptocurrencies. Later on, a panel of experts will weigh in on the various methods of trading crypto, for both retail and institutional investors.Concluding the event is an upbeat Crypto Innovation Stage, featuring new products and services in crypto trading. Five crypto firms will be showcasing their wares, battling for your vote for the Most Outstanding Crypto Product Award.