Final confirmation Ethereum hard fork Istanbul will take place on 7th December 2019On the 7th of December 2019 Ethereum will activate the Istanbul hard fork in the Mainnet as scheduled, at block number 9.069.000. This was confirmed by Hudson Jameson in a post published yesterday on the Ethereum blog. Due to the variable block times, the exact time cannot be predicted exactly.Jameson called on all Ethereum node operators in the blog post to update the Ethereum core software before Sunday, December 1, 2019, so that the upgrade can go smoothly. According to Ethernodes.org statistics, 26.8 percent of all Ethereum clients are "Istanbul-ready" at the time of writing.This means that about a quarter of all node operators have installed the new software. However, the remaining clients still have to be upgraded to the newest version: Geth V. 1.9.7, Parity V. 2.5.10, Besu V. 1.3.4, Nethermind V.1.1.8, ethereumJS V. 4.0.2, Trinity V. 0.1.0-alpha.30 or Aleth V. 1.7.1. However, the crypto community expects a large majority to install the upgrade in time and successfully activate the upgrade.Ethereum clients that do not upgrade to the latest version will be synchronized with the pre-fork blockchain once the upgrade is complete. As a result, they will be stuck in an incompatible, outdated Ethereum blockchain and will not be able to send Ether (ETH) or work on the Ethereum network after the upgrade.Ethereum owners, on the other hand, do not need to take any action when using an exchange (such as Coinbase or Binance), a web wallet service (such as MyEtherWallet or Metamask), a mobile wallet service (such as Atomic Wallet, Trust Wallet) or a hardware wallet (such as Ledger, Trezor or KeepKey) unless the provider provides information about any additional steps.The Istanbul hard fork is the 8th Ethereum network upgrade. As a result of the strong growth of the Ethereum developer community last year, Istanbul is the largest upgrade to date in terms of the proposed 30 Ethereum Improvement Proposals (EIPs). Out of these, six EIPs were considered ready for implementation under the first part of the Istanbul Hard Fork. A second part will follow in the first quarter of 2020, with 8 EIPs accepted by now.The first part of Istanbul will focus on the fundamentals for the transition from Ethereum to a scalable Proof-of-Stake (PoS) network, improvements in resistance to denial of service attacks and increased interoperability between Ethereum and ZCash. Specifically, the implementation of the following EIPs is planned:Follow us on Facebook and Twitter and don't miss any hot news anymore! Do you like our price indices?Last Updated on 21 November, 2019