Gabi Zodik Joins London Summit 2019In just five weeks, London Summit 2019 will formally kick-off, attracting the industry's biggest names and executives across multiple segments. Gabi Zodik, Director of Blockchain and IoT Platforms for IBM Research, has become the latest name to join the summit's speakers.Each London Summit has featured a robust agenda, composed of a diverse group of panels and workshops, and discussions. Mr. Zodik's expertise will be tapped on the evolution of money, namely, as it pertains to digital markets and asset-backed tokens.London Summit 2019 Launches the Latest Era in FX and Fintech - Join NowHe will be featured in a keynote speech in the main Speakers Hall. Held at the Old Billingsgate on November 12-13, London Summit 2019 looks to offer something for all attendees.This year, upwards of 3,000 attendees are expected, constituting leading retail FX brokers, fintech startups, investment banks, and service providers.Suggested articlesSpectre.ai Launches World's First Hyper-API and Mobile App!Go to article >>Spectre.ai Launches World's First Hyper-API and Mobile App!Go to article >>In an insightful keynote session, Mr. Zodik will discuss the evolution of money and its intersection with Blockchain, IoT, and other disruptive technologies that have taken the FX and finance industries by storm.Blockchain, like the new operating system of trust, has become a power of decentralization, creating markets for the future with a new trust model, providing new economic and business models based on joint value, identity, and digitalization.Join this unmissable keynote to find out all there is to know on the subject. This includes an emphasis on asset-backed tokens as well as tokens backed by real assets increasing liquidity and creating new markets.Additionally, attendees can learn more about tokens in real estate, intellectual property, shared and joint ownership. Finally, Mr. Zodik will delve into blockchain's technical challenges, including privacy and compliance, a connection to the physical world, scalability, and performance.Stay tuned for further details on London Summit 2019's workshops and panels, which will be updated daily. See you in November!