IOTA introduces new lightweight node HORNET – Beta releasedFor a decentralized network it is of great importance that there is a large number of different node implementations to prevent a central software provider from dictating the network. To take another step towards decentralization, the IOTA Foundation presented a new node implementation called "HORNET" yesterday.In the blog post, the IOTA Foundation writes that it is aware of the need to provide its partners and established companies with a "mature ecosystem of tools" that leverage IOTA technology and the Tangle. The foundation writes about the current development progress:In addition to our ongoing work on various parts of our technology stack, such as client libraries and MAM (Masked Authenticated Messaging), we have always invested in ensuring the smoothest possible participation in the Tangle through Node software. The IRI reference implementation has undergone many changes and improvements over the past year, with the aim of significantly improving participation in the Tangle and building private networks.In addition, the development team explained that they are currently working on a new "high performance" node implementation in Rust called "Bee". A first version of this node software is scheduled for release in 2020.The latest release is HORNET. The project was started by three external developers from the IOTA community and has received another team member from the IOTA Foundation through Luca Moser, who will act as a bridge between the development team and the IOTA Foundation.In order to further develop and diversify our node software offering, the IOTA Foundation supported the development of a node implementation in Go. [...] This is a lightweight variant of our Java Node Implementation (IRI).The HORNET beta version was released a few days ago and is now available via GitHub. Over the last two months, the HONET team has completed the implementation of the IRI API, making HORNET compatible with the IOTA client libraries and the Trinity wallet. The functionality corresponds to the latest version of the Java Node Implementation, except for local snapshots to support nodes with limited memory space. This feature will be added shortly.Furthermore, the dashboard design is not yet fully developed. With a later version the IOTA Foundation will revise the design and integrate it into HORNET. HORNET also includes its own Tangle Explorer, which is strongly inspired by TheTangle.org Explorer. The new HORNET Explorer is not intended to replace TheTangle.org, but to complement it.In summary, the IOTA Foundation declared the new node implementation:The HORNET team has done an amazing job in building the node software. We are very excited to have HORNET as a complement to our existing ecosystem, and we look forward to how HORNET evolves over the coming months and years!As CNF reported yesterday, another external IOTA developer presented a remarkable development yesterday. With Espiota, a powerful microcontroller, IOTA transactions can be sent between any electrically powered computer. The developer has applied for funding from the IOTA Ecosystem Development Fund for the further development of the prototype.Follow us on Facebook and Twitter and don't miss any hot news anymore! Do you like our price indices?Last Updated on 18 December, 2019