Itiviti Partners with Seed CX to Provide Access to NYFIXThere's a new partnership in the digital asset space, as technology provider Itiviti has announced this Thursday that it has partnered with Seed CX. The collaboration will allow traditional institutional firms that use Itiviti's NYFIX network access to Seed CX's digital asset exchange and settlement ecosystem.Itiviti is a technology and service provider for financial institutions. NYFIX is an order routing platform. It provides a broker independent, vendor agnostic FIX service. The platform connects buy-side, sell-side, and trading venues.London Summit 2019 Launches the Latest Era in FX and Fintech - Join NowNYFIX is an appealing product to many as it is easy to connect to almost any order management system (OMS). Without the hassle of untangling current software and replacing it with something else, NYFIX can be used by vendors to connect their clients with international customers at a much cheaper rate than would otherwise be possible.Suggested articlesSpectre.ai Launches World's First Hyper-API and Mobile App!Go to article >>Spectre.ai Launches World's First Hyper-API and Mobile App!Go to article >>Specifically, Seed CX has joined Itiviti's Global Alliance Program (GAP), which is what it uses to manage all partner relations globally. Customers of NYFIX will now have the same analytics, monitoring, and post-trade processing tools, that they rely on normally, in the digital asset space.Commenting on the partnership, Adam Leaman, VP of Client Services, Seed CX said: "Now that the NYFIX network is connected to our digital asset exchange, Itiviti's client base, which includes over 800 institutional firms, can easily access Seed's crypto market. Itiviti's NYFIX suite of services is well known for stability and a strong support team, which is why their client base is a natural fit for our exchange."Itiviti has been actively expanding its product offering and the NYFIX network in recent months. As Finance Magnates reported, the tech provider recently announced a partnership with Blaze Portfolio, in which the company has provided access to its NYFIX suite of products to Blaze's customers."We're very excited about our latest partnership with Seed CX," added Jason Landauer, Head of Network Sales, Itiviti. "Growth in the crypto space shows no sign of slowing, and we are thrilled to be the connectivity partner for Seed CX and their clients."