Kraken Lists Cosmos (ATOM) Following BSV ControversyUS-based cryptocurrency exchange Kraken has made the decision to begin offering support for Cosmos (ATOM), a Proof-of-Stake cryptocurrency based on the Tendermint consensus protocol. Trading will begin today, April 22nd, and will be offered in five pairs: ATOM/USD, ATOM/EUR, ATOM/CAD, ATOM/BTC, and ATOM/ETH.Kraken is listing Cosmos (ATOM) on Monday, April 22nd. Find out more here: https://t.co/7yzg2SilMMDiscover Barcelona Trading Conference - A Top Tier Crypto Trading Event-- Kraken Exchange (@krakenfx) April 21, 2019The announcement of the listing does not seem to have had any major positive effect on the price of Cosmos, which had fallen nearly 17 percent over the last 24 hours at the time of writing. Cosmos' market cap was $1.06 billion, down from $1.2 billion less than 24 hours before.Suggested articlesSpectre.ai Launches World's First Hyper-API and Mobile App!Go to article >>Spectre.ai Launches World's First Hyper-API and Mobile App!Go to article >>On March 20th, shortly after Cosmos' March 13th launch, research firm Diar posted a report ranking Cosmos as the third-largest Proof of Stake cryptocurrency in terms of the value of the USD staked on its blockchain. EOS and Dash both ranked above Cosmos; Tezos, NEM, Tron, and several others sat below it.Kraken became embroiled in a bit of controversy last week when its CEO, Jesse Powell, declared that the exchange would be de-listing Bitcoin Cash Satoshi's Vision (BSV), the cryptocurrency created by Craig Wright. Wright has proclaimed that he is Satoshi Nakamoto, the creator of Bitcoin. At the same time, Powell announced that Kraken would "probably" begin listing two new coins each month starting in May.JUST ! Kraken is delisting Bitcoin SV amid controversy, but the exchange plans to list 2 coins per month starting in Mayhttps://t.co/CmHKIYFMC0-- Frank Chaparro (@fintechfrank) April 16, 2019
It seemed that the fact that Wright's proclamations were not taken very seriously by most people in the cryptosphere really started to get under his skin last week because he made the decision to begin taking legal action against individuals who denied that he is Satoshi.As a result of the legal actions and threats that Wright has made, several cryptocurrency exchanges de-listed BSV, including Kraken. Kraken also took a Twitter poll that found that users think BSV is 'toxic,' although it's not clear what that means on a practical level. The de-listings caused a major price crash for BSV.