Meet Our New Crypto Event Barcelona Trading Conference 2019!Finance Magnates and Ultimate Fintech are teaming up to deliver a dedicated event for the crypto trading community: The Barcelona Trading Conference (let the acronym dawn on you for a second). The BTC will host over 3,500 attendees, 120 sponsors and exhibitors, and dozens of influential speakers to explore the potential of crypto trading. While the retail side is deep in a bear market, the industry is building the eco-system for institutional adoption and we will bring together at the CCIB, the largest venue in Southern Europe, the people that make magic happen. Discover Barcelona Trading Conference - A Top Tier Crypto Trading EventSome of the brightest executives in crypto will be featured on the agenda, sharing their perspective on key topics such as stablecoins in 2019, the prospects of security tokens, the authenticity and impact of trading volumes, and more. Visitors can expect to learn about trends in regulation, technology, and asset management in the crypto space from experts who understand the challenges and rewards that come from working with decentralized investments. Confirmed speakers include senior executives from Kraken, Bitfinex, eToro, and more. Stay tuned as the speaker list is growing!  Ultimate Fintech and Finance Magnates are known for holding massive events for the trading industry, bringing together thousands of crypto pioneers and the financial services industry participants. Suggested articlesSpectre.ai Launches World's First Hyper-API and Mobile App!Go to article >>Spectre.ai Launches World's First Hyper-API and Mobile App!Go to article >>Our previous event, the iFX EXPO Asia, included dedicated sessions for issues like the institutional crypto investing, diversification to crypto for OTC brokers, and other advanced topics on asset tokenization and the touchpoints of the crypto economy and the financial system.In November, Finance Magnates hosted the London Summit, featuring keynote speeches and panel discussions by leaders of the local crypto community."The launch of the Barcelona Trading Conference marks another step in our growth, but it is meant to fulfill one of our core missions, to create a platform for the industry to exchange ideas and explore new business," Michael Greenberg, CEO and Founder of Finance Magnates, commented. "It is an interesting moment for the community, and as a big believer myself I am looking forward to hearing the views and insights of the leading firms and individuals in this space."Gal Ron, CEO of Ultimate Fintech, has added: "Ultimate Fintech is dedicated to promoting an environment that is both educational and entertaining for the financial services industry. We believe this is one reason why our attendance figures continue to grow every year, and we are proud to offer the best expo experience possible in the crypto space as well."To take advantage of the sponsorship and exhibition opportunities that are still available, and for more information on attending the Barcelona Trading Conference 2019, visit www.btconf.io or contact sales@btconf.io.