Miko Matsumura Joins the Barcelona Trading ConferenceThe Barcelona Trading Conference (BTC) has seen its highly decorated group of speakers grow over the past few months. Finance Magnates is pleased to announce the addition of crypto mainstay, Miko Matsumura to the event's agenda.Taking place on July 10-11, the Barcelona Trading Conference represents the accumulation of the biggest names and figures from around the crypto and blockchain industry. The event will be held at the International Convention Center in Barcelona.Discover Barcelona Trading Conference - A Top Tier Crypto Trading EventMr. Matsumura is a well-known name around the industry. He spoke to Finance Magnates in great detail during an in-depth interview, having given his perspective on the centralized exchanges., As the co-founder of the Evercoin Exchange, Mr. Matsumura has helped build multiple companies, raising a collective $50m in venture capital.His prowess in crypto and blockchain ventures is also common knowledge, having earned him numerous roles as a token advisor and speaker at some of the most prominent industry events. In addition to his role at Evercoin Exchange, Mr. Matsumura also a General Partner of Gumi Cryptos, a $30m Crypto Asset Fund, and a Limited Partner with Pantera Capital's $100m ICO fund.Suggested articlesSpectre.ai Launches World's First Hyper-API and Mobile App!Go to article >>Spectre.ai Launches World's First Hyper-API and Mobile App!Go to article >>Since their inception, cryptocurrencies have been associated with wild price fluctuations. Although this boom or bust cycle has sometimes paid off for investors interested in arbitrage, it has proven to be one of the biggest barriers in the path towards universal adoption of a tokenized economy.Are stablecoins the answer to crypto's volatility problem? One of the marquee panels at the Barcelona Trading Conference will look to address this question. Mr. Matsumura will be featured on the panel, touching on a variety of topics.This also includes the differences between centralized, crypto-collateralized, and non-collateralized stablecoins. Moreover, a veteran panel will also focus on the benefits of programmable stablecoins and how investors can protect themselves from a worst-case stablecoin scenario.Will stablecoins subject exchanges to a new round of regulatory scrutiny? This is one panel you do not want to miss. If you have not already done so, make sure to familiarize yourself with the event's agenda today.