Monero and ZCash competitor Dash will introduce SidechainsBitcoin, Monero, Dash, Zcash and other cryptocurrencies will serve as the means of payment of the future. With increasing use and adaptation, however, the resources of the networks reach their limits at times. However, to ensure that all transactions can be carried out without any problems, there are various scaling solutions.Dash has announced the availability of sidechains for distributed applications (dApps) on the Dash platform. This should increase the security of the network and improve the performance of the dash blockchain. Ivan Shumkov, lead developer of the Dash Platrom, describes that the development team decided to use sidechains:In order to host and operate these services, Dash Platform will run exclusively on the masternode network. Compared to using the entire Dash network, this is a much more scalable solution because masternodes will be economically incentivized to provide high-quality service. For processing and storing the Platform State (the global platform dataset), the platform needs a byzantine fault-tolerant consensus protocol. This consensus protocol ensures that a quorum (i.e. subset) of masternodes validates and processes the data in a trustless manner.The problem of how to best record and finalize state transitions presents us with two potential solutions: use the existing blockchain or introduce a new blockchain solely for the platform.The development team has decided to integrate a separate blockchain, also known as a sidechain or platform chain. This will be used to execute and store application-specific elements. There are 4 main reasons for this decision:Sidechains will help Dash to further increase the functionality and speed of the network. Dash CEO Ryan Taylor has announced the current growth figures for the Dash network. According to the figures, there has been a significant increase in daily transactions in the Dash Network. In the third quarter of 2018, 5,559 transactions were executed in the Dash Network. In the third quarter of 2019, the number rose to 11,133.3/8Here is the number of daily transactions and resulting quarterly growth rates. As you can see, Dash usage is growing double digits consistently every quarter.
Q3 '18 - 5,559
Q4 '18 - 7,579 (+36%)
Q1 '19 - 8,383 (+11%)
Q2 '19 - 11,133 (+33%)
Q3 '19 - 15,469 (+39%)-- Ryan Taylor (@RTaylor05) October 23, 2019Dash was also able to establish further partnerships:Last Updated on 1 November, 2019