Nordic Growth Market Lists Crypto Contracts of VontobelNordic Growth Market, a Swedish stock exchange, on Thursday announced that it listed Bitcoin and Ether-based mini futures.The derivative products are backed by the investment bank Vontobel, which earlier launched tracker certificates on Bitcoin, Ether, Ripple, and Litecoin.Discover the Barcelona Trading Conference - A Top Tier Crypto Trading EventCommenting on the listing, Tommy Fransson, deputy chief executive of Nordic Growth Market, said: "It is with great pleasure we list Mini Futures on cryptocurrencies from Vontobel. It has a big interest among investors. This listing further strengthens the crypto products offering at NGM."Mini futures contracts, often termed as e-mini, are similar to standard futures contracts, but with a fraction of their value. Traders can book profits from upward or downward performances of the assets as the exchange provides both long and short positions. In addition, the Swedish exchange is also offering leverage to the crypto derivatives traders.Suggested articlesSpectre.ai Launches World's First Hyper-API and Mobile App!Go to article >>Spectre.ai Launches World's First Hyper-API and Mobile App!Go to article >>Due to the volatile nature of digital currencies, the demand for crypto-backed derivatives is skyrocketing. The company introduced the mini futures amid massive demand for crypto derivatives from its client base.The market demand can be seen on the stats published by CME Group, which recently touched $1.7 billion worth notional value in Bitcoin futures in a single day. The platform also witnessed record growth in the new user registration for trading Bitcoin futures.Many other major platforms are also jumping to offer crypto futures-based services to get a piece of the lucrative market. ErisX recently received a license from the US commodities regulator to offer crypto futures contracts to its clients. Last month, LedgerX received a license from the same regulator to offer physically-delivered Bitcoin derivatives."The new Mini Futures on cryptocurrencies will give investors new instruments to trade cryptocurrencies in bullish as well as bearish market environments. They will also enable crypto investors to hedge long crypto positions," Roger Studer, head of investment banking at Vontobel, added. "Vontobel underlines its claim to deliver innovative products, liquid market access as well as best services to its customers and confirms its position as one of Sweden's leading providers of structured products."