Novogratz Ripple’s XRP will underperform immensely in 2020Although the price of Ripple's XRP in 2020 has so far outperformed Bitcoin (BTC), Mike Novogratz said that XRP's performance this year is expected to be similar to 2019. While the price of XRP has fallen from around USD 0.35 to USD 0.19, a drop of 45%, BTC rose last year from USD 3,780 to USD 7,170 (+89%).Novogratz spoke before a group of financial advisors during the LINC 2020 conference and dropped a line to Ripple that probably caused displeasure to those responsible at Ripple. During a stage discussion with financial guru Ric Edelman, Novogratz said that the XRP price trend in 2020 is likely to be "underperform immensely", similar to 2019. He cited Ripple's monthly XRP sales as the reason:It [XRP] did underperform immensely last year. I think it will underperform immensely again this year and it's just because of the supply.Ripple the company owns 60 billion of the coins, of the XRP. That's a lot of it. When I'm buying a stock, if I know [someone's] selling $10 billion-worth of it at some price, it makes me less excited to buy the stock.With this Novogratz is knocking into a notch that the people in charge at Ripple have heard only too often in the past few months. Under the motto "dumping XRP", numerous experts and XRP supporters accuse Ripple of negatively influencing the price of XRP. Through the monthly release of one billion XRP from an escrow account and the sales made to exchanges and other institutions, according to the opinion, the XRP price is negatively influenced permanently.Brad Garlinghouse, the CEO of Ripple, of course did not hesitate to react to the renewed accusation. Garlinghouse emphasized in a tweet that XRP has a higher price gain than Bitcoin in 2020:Ahem... IS THIS THING ON... can I get a fact check on aisle CoinDesk? XRP has outperformed BTC and the broader crypto market in 2020. XRP is up 44% (19.1 to 27.5) vs BTC's 33% (7,100 to 9,500) so far this year.Garlinghouse jokingly added that Novogratz also predicted that Tom Hanks would win an Oscar for Mr. Rogers, saying that this may be the only prediction that will come true.Despite the exchange of words between Novogratz and Garlinghouse, it should not be forgotten that Galaxy Digital is one of the largest investors in Ripple Labs, as Novogratz also explained in a number of other tweets. Accordingly, he wants Ripple Labs to be successful.1. GLXY is a big investor in Ripple Labs. I would like to see them do well.  @bgarlinghouse has done a great job as ceo.   I commented the XRP tokens underperformed $btc last year because Ripple owns a lot of them.   I have been almost solely long $btc for the past 15 months.-- Michael Novogratz (@novogratz) February 6, 2020In response to Garlinghouse's tweet, Novogratz went on to say that he is surprised by the current performance of the altcoin market. As he explains, it is mainly Bitcoin (BTC) that is attracting the interest of large clients:According to Novogratz, both XRP and Ethereum (ETH) are in a "proving phase". They will be successful if they build a "real and scalable use case". Then there will be more buyers than sellers and the price will rise, Novogratz said.5. The price of $XRP will be determined like all prices. If there are more buyers than sellers (and the company has a lot of control here) the price will rise. The company needs to distribute ina rational way at the same time building a real and scalable use case. I hope they do-- Michael Novogratz (@novogratz) February 6, 2020Follow us on Facebook and Twitter and don't miss any hot news anymore! Do you like our price indices?Last Updated on 6 February, 2020