Opera Launches Cryptocurrency Buying Feature to ScandinaviansWeb browser Opera is rolling out a cryptocurrency buying functionality to users of its 'Web 3-Ready' browser in Sweden, Norway, and Denmark. Web 3 is an umbrella for Opera's set of cryptocurrency and blockchain products, and it already has a built-in crypto wallet for Android which supports Ethereum and dApps interactions.The feature launches in partnership with Stockholm-based Bitcoin brokerage Safello. With its brokerage-as-a-service model, Safello leverages its banking relationships - a pain point in the crypto world - and long experience of KYC/AML policies. The company is also registered with the Financial Supervisory Authority in Sweden.Asia Trading Summit - The Leading Investment Event in ChinaThe news from the listed web developer informed users that Safello's solution would validate their identities with BankID and NemID. This collaboration also allows Opera users to make payments with credit and debit cards through regulated payment networks, such as Swish in Sweden.Frank Schuil, CEO of Safello, further explains: "With Safello brokerage on the Opera mobile browser for Android, both new and experienced users can now easily transact cryptocurrencies in the most secure and fastest way possible. The functionality to purchase crypto is right at their fingertips."Suggested articlesSpectre.ai Launches World's First Hyper-API and Mobile App!Go to article >>Spectre.ai Launches World's First Hyper-API and Mobile App!Go to article >>"For a limited time, users in Sweden will receive a discounted fee of 2.5% from Safello. Users in Norway and Denmark will receive a fee of 5%," he added.Opera was the first ever full-fledged browser to adopt cryptocurrencies. In July 2018, the Norwegian company launched the world's first internet browser with a built-in cryptocurrency wallet with its Android mobile application.According to its own numbers, the Opera web browser currently holds nearly four percent of the global market share with over 320 million monthly active users.Charles Hamel, Product Lead for Crypto at Opera, commented on the company's long term vision "We think that the next important phase for crypto will come from usage and that for it to reach wider adoption, it has to be easy to buy and easy to use. We believe that the browser will be the entry point for these use cases. Thanks to our partnership with Safello, we are taking one more step towards this vision."