PwC says Cardano will be the new global standard for decentralizationThe CEO of Input and Output HK (IOHK) and creator of Cardano, Charles Hoskinson, met with the legal team of the consulting firm PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC). As he had recently announced, the visit is part of a tour that was partially cancelled due to the spread of the Coronavirus.The objective of the meeting is to continue working on Cardano's marketing strategy. The cooperation between the Cardano Foundation and PwC was announced at the end of January 2020. The consultant committed to develop a strategy to boost the adoption of Cardano and promote it as a commercial product. Furthermore, IOHK will develop a process to make it easier for exchanges to list ADA.The IOHK CEO referred to the cooperation in one of his most recent videos. Hoskinson said that details of the contract were still to be finalized. PwC legal team leader Guenther Dobrauz made a really important statement after the meeting. Dobrauz said Cardano will be an important part of a decentralized future:I have been shouting it from every rooftop they let me climb for years: the future is decentralised and must be circular. And Cardano Foundation and the amazing team around Charles are a huge part of this.Hoskinson also announced in a recent AMA that PwC will support the Cardano executives by introducing Hoskinson and Co. to representatives of Fortune 500 companies. As Hoskinson said, the Cardano delegation will "pitch" Cardano's vision and technology to these companies, perhaps to find new partners. Hoskinson said at the time:This also includes Fortune 500 alignment. Because PwC has such a great portfolio of clients in that range they can allow us to have a direct line of access to a lot of different Fortune 500 firms to have conversations with. And we basically pitch them Cardano.The meeting of the Cardano Foundation with PoW took place while ADA is among the best performing cryptocurrencies in the top 20. At the time of publication, ADA trades at $0.0493 with a 2% gain in the last 24 hours. Although in the weekly and monthly charts it still shows losses, its performance in the last 24 hours is only outpaced by Chainlink and Tezos with gains of 9.31% and 2.40% respectively.Recently, Cardano successfully completed the implementation of its OBFT hard fork. The IOHK team is now focusing on the development of the Byron reboot upgrade. This is the second major milestone for the launch of Shelley.Follow us on Facebook and Twitter and don't miss any hot news anymore! Do you like our price indices?Last Updated on 4 March, 2020