Ripple 3 million wallet owners can use XRPThe wallet provider BRD announced yesterday that as of now the native token of Ripple, XRP, is supported. BRD can be used for different cryptocurrencies and can even be operated by the grandmother of the founder Aaron Voisine. Voisine's vision is to provide an easy-to-use Ripple wallet that can be utilized by anyone, regardless of their technical knowledge of cryptocurrencies.The support of XRP is a logical consequence of the increasing demand of its users for digital assets that offer a real use case, said the founder. In the first step XRP will be implemented in the iOS app, Android will follow soon. Voisine is pleased to meet the wishes of the wallet users and describes:What began as an experiment for developers and early adopters who thought it was interesting, has now passed through a speculative and volatile phase into stable stores of value that will lead to more consumer applications.XRP will significantly expand the scalability and range of applications of the BRD Wallet, as transfers can be processed in real time at very low cost, making it easy to implement cross-border payment initiatives. This capability enables the wallet to offer a range of different assets that complement each other and fill gaps in each of the assets.BRD will continue to offer an enterprise solution specifically for businesses. Voisine states that XRP will be among the first currencies to be included in BRD's new blockset product. Blockset is an API and hosting solution for enterprise-level blockchain data that can be offered to companies of any size. BRD explains the new service as follows:This new service is envisioned as a high-uptime, high-availability SaaS-like service for banks and other crypto businesses that need access to Bitcoin, XRP and other blockchain data--but who find it cost-prohibitive or too difficult to maintain on their own.In addition to this expansion of the product range, BRD intends to work even more closely with Ripple's investment arm Xpring to develop new functions of BRD and to be able to adapt them perfectly to the needs of the users. BRD wants to democratize the use of digital assets for consumers and businesses alike.BRD promotes the adaptation of XRP and strengthens the trust in cryptocurrencies. The company has customers in over 150 countries around the world and has a customer base of over 3 million active users.Yesterday, Egypt's first state-owned bank, the National Bank of Egypt (NBE), announced that it has joined RippleNet and will use Ripple's payment solutions. The NBE is the first bank in Africa to use Ripple's payment software, marking Ripple's entry into another important target market.Furthermore, Ripple's transaction volume in general and the On-Demand Liquidity (ODL) payment solution in particular is reaching a new all-time high. ODL's fourth quarter transaction volume increased by more than 390% compared to the third quarter of 2019, and transaction volume has also risen sharply on three key payment corridors, also setting new records.The price of XRP is responding positively to this news, rising 12.65% to a price of $0.3281.Follow us on Facebook and Twitter and don't miss any hot news anymore! Do you like our price indices?Last Updated on 13 February, 2020