Ripple’s competitor Dash powers remittance platformThe Mexican cryptocurrency exchange, Cubobit, announced the launch of a new remittance platform powered by Dash. The platform will be called RemeZaZa and will allow its users to send remittances to Mexico in minutes.The alliance was announced by Dash Mexico and confirmed by Cubobit CEO, Amir Manzur Escobar. In his statements, Manzur highlighted the advantages that the implementation of this service will have. At the same time, he stressed the benefits of Dash's blockchain.According to Manzur, CEO of Cubobit, the ability to use Dash's blockchain to make instant payments and its ease of use make it an ideal choice for services such as RemeZaZa.Using Dash we are now able to receive remittances in Dash, exchange them to Mexican pesos, and deposit to the beneficiary's account almost instantly.According to Dash's publication on its website, transactions are consolidated within 5 minutes of shipment. What would make RemeZaZa an attractive option against international competitors or traditional means of payment.The alliance was made by Roel Castano, head of Dash Mexico, and signifies an important step in Dash's expansion. The cryptocurrency has had a relevant presence in Latin America which will continue to grow with this alliance. It is expected that in 2019, the remittances market between the United States and Mexico will have a value of US$ 35 billion.Another important news for Dash is his cooperation with Alternative Airlines. Through this cooperation, Dash can be used as a payment method for more than 650 airlines. Payments will be processed by Utrust.Nuno Correia, CEO of Utrust, pointed out that payment risks and the increase in approved transactions increase when cryptocurrencies, such as Dash, are used.In that line, Ripple is another important player. Recently, as reported by CNF, its alliance with banking institutions, such as the Spanish bank Santander, have made important announcements and advances. This events always have a positive impact on the adoption of cryptocurrencies.Being part of everyday solutions, such as instant payments, increases its use by people. This way, cryptocurrencies are incorporated into the real world and become relevant alternatives to the traditional means of the financial system.The price of Dash, at the time of publication, is $63.63 USD with a lateral movement (-4.21%) in the last 24 hours. Unimpressed by events, Dash has seen a significant drop in its price during the month of November.Will Dash's new alliances have a positive impact on its price? For now, it is necessary to see how these agreements will develop in the long and medium term.Follow us on Facebook and Twitter and don't miss any hot news anymore! Do you like our price indexes?Last Updated on 19 November, 2019