Ripple’s Xpring plans to build bridge to EthereumRipple introduced the open developer platform Xpring in 2019. The platform has recently gained important partners, which now include the Ethereum developer community. In a recent publication, Warren Paul Anderson spoke about her work with the Ethereum community. One of the goals of Xpring is to build a bridge between XRP and ETH tokens.In the Xpring blog post, Anderson talks about the support of the Ethereum community event, ETH Denver. Xpring supported one of the hackathons at the conference. As a result, some members of the crypto community began to speculate whether a collaboration between the platforms would be announced.Anderson responded in his publication, highlighting the principles upon which Xpring was founded. In the publication, Anderson writes:We believe that developers should be given a choice on how to solve their problems, which is one of the reasons why we think interoperability is so important for crypto and blockchain technology to reach mainstream adoption.Anderson also praised the efforts Ethereum is making to reach and support one million developers worldwide. According to the article, Xpring will support these efforts. As Anderson explained, Xpring will use their resources to support this goal.At ETH Denver, Xpring sponsored three challenges based on interoperability between the XRP Ledger (XRP) and Ethereum (ETH) based on the Interledger Protocol (ILP). Anderson explained:We think the XRP to ETH and ERC-20 tokens bridge is important since XRP is one of the most liquid cryptocurrencies in the world, but doesn't have a compute layer to support complex smart contracts for the growing Decentralized Finance (DeFi) market on Ethereum.Xpring's challenges are still available and can be accessed here. Developers who want to be part of this initiative have until February 26th, 2020. Xpring has invited all developers who want to contribute to the construction of the XRP/ETH bridge.Ripple's CTO David Schwartz has retweeted the blog post, adding that bridges are much better than walls.Bridges > Walls https://t.co/ACigSNGuhU-- David Schwartz (@JoelKatz) February 21, 2020Xpring is also part of the Blockchain Education Alliance along with the Stellar Lumen Foundation, TRON, NEM and Ethereum Classic Labs, among others. The initiative aims to work together to support university students interested in acquiring knowledge about blockchain.Follow us on Facebook and Twitter and don't miss any hot news anymore! Do you like our price indices?Last Updated on 21 February, 2020