Samsung Galaxy S20 will support Bitcoin, Ethereum and TRON (TRX)Samsung's new flagship, the Galaxy S20, will have a wallet for storing cryptocurrencies. Samsung is thus remaining true to itself and retaining this unique feature of the previous model. The official website describes that the smartphone has a security system with improved PIN protection and password protection. A separate memory partition is used for the private key.Samsung started in March 2018 to build a wallet in the Samsung Galaxy S10. In July of the same year, a developer kit specially designed for programmers and users was launched to design and create dApps. Among other things, dApps could be developed to pay for services or goods using the wallet.Initially only Ethereum and all ERC20 tokens were supported, but two months later the market leader Bitcoin followed. As Crypto News Flash already reported, Samsung surprisingly announced the integration of TRON (TRX) into the Blockchain Keystore SDK at the end of October last year.In addition, the integration of TRON into the SDK meant that application programming interfaces (APIs) for TRX-based tokens and distributed applications (dApps) became accessible to around 1 billion Samsung users worldwide. Samsung wrote at the time that other cheaper models would follow, which would also be provided with a wallet to store cryptocurrencies easily and securely.Sales of the Samsung Galaxy S20 series are scheduled to start on March 6. If Samsung delivers on this promise in a timely manner and equips additional smartphones with a wallet, this could make a significant contribution to a broader adaptation of cryptocurrencies worldwide.In addition to the Samsung devices, there are also smartphones that rely entirely on blockchain technology. This includes the HTC Exodus 1, for example, which was launched at the beginning of last year. HTC's Chief Decentralized Officer Phil Chen explained that sales have exceeded his expectations just a few weeks after the model was launched.At the Consumer Electronics Show (CES) in Las Vegas, Pundi X introduced the Blok On Blok, another blockchain smartphone with a good display and two operating systems, Android 9 and a specially developed blockchain-based operating system. The built-in Android launcher offers the possibility to run all known apps in blockchain mode and users of the smartphone can also call each other in blockchain mode. Each BOB device contains its own ID for this purpose.Follow us on Facebook and Twitter and don't miss any hot news anymore! Do you like our price indices?Last Updated on 19 February, 2020