Spain Charging an electric car via IOTA Tangle – Proof of conceptThe Spanish company Comunitaria.com de Servicios a las Comunidades S.L. in cooperation with Cuerva presented a proof of concept via YouTube, which allows users to charge any electric vehicle via data transfer on the IOTA Tangle. The charging is supposed to work with any charger that supports the open protocol OCPP and works through the Supervecina.com app. Users of the app can activate and stop the charging process via WhatsApp as well as monitor the power consumption.As shown in the video, the electric car is first plugged into the socket. Then the user only needs to send the word "charge" (in Spanish). At the end of the charging process, the energy consumed and the charging time is displayed for the user. Currently, however, this only works by outputting the data fields.The IOTA Tangle stores the amount of energy consumed (in kWh), a time stamp, a unique transaction ID and a "cp_id" to identify the origin of the data transaction. The display as well as the output of the information is done via the MAM explorer of IOTA. It is also important to note that the proof of concept is currently still based on the test network for developers.Below you can watch a video of the proof of concept:The project is funded by the Framework Program for Research and Innovation "Horizen 2020" of the European Union. 12 companies from 8 countries were selected to demonstrate the feasibility of blockchain and distributed ledger technologies (DLTs) in traditional small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) across Europe. The program will start this September with several special training sessions for companies.On October 9 and 10, all projects will meet at an event in Budapest, where a "Demolition Pitch Contest" will be held. Thus, four of the 12 projects will be eliminated and only 8 teams will enter the "implementation phase" of the program. The goal of the subsequent phase will be to implement Distributed Ledger technologies in existing SMEs from a variety of sectors across Europe.At the end of the program, a company can receive up to EUR50,000 without equity capital. To date, the 12 teams have received EUR3,000 in the first weeks of the program and a range of free training and services.Follow us on Facebook and Twitter and don't miss any hot news anymore! Do you like our price indices?Last Updated on 2 March, 2020