Tavittcoin leaves Ethereum and Waves and migrates to the TRON blockchainAccording to a new post, Tavitt Co., Ltd, reported that it will enter the BitTorrent BTFS ecosystem. In addition, Tavittcoin will be transferred to TRON's TRC20 blockchain and will no longer use the Ethereum and WAVES platforms. Tavitt will establish a period in which Tavittcoin users can move to the TRON blockchain.According to the publication, the main reason for the migration to the TRON ecosystem is the potential reach in number of users that will benefit Tavitt. Tavitt is a platform that provides recommendations and content about tourist sites around the world to travelers who can profit from their trips. Through Tavittcoin, users can earn revenue from travel and from travel routes they can design themselves.  Tavitt Co., Ltd. was established on May 16, 2014 in Thailand.About 100 million users worldwide use BitTorrent, and the BTFS ecosystem provides tools that are unmatched by its competitors. Tavitt is interested in applying these tools to develop new use cases for Tavitt and Tavittcoin. For example:Tavitt users hope to get more information about traveling, they can download a wide range of contents from BTFS. Travelers can also manage these contents while traveling by using BitTorrent Remote. It is useful to be able to display desirable contents / media in the case that you are offline when there is no internet available while at the traveling destination.According to the publication, the BitTorrent ecosystem and the TRON blockchain will be a must for the development of decentralized applications (DApp) in the future. Specifically, Tavitt hopes to develop better applications for travelers.The crypto community has discussed the progress that TRON has made over its competitors, especially the advantages of the TRON blockchain against Ethereum. Blockstream CEO Adam Back said in a Twitter discussion that TRON is superior to Ethereum. In addition, the Tron Foundation has better funding for the development of its projects.Back received criticism for his claims that became more controversial when he was seen posing in a photo with TRON CEO Justin Sun. This was the beginning of the rumor that TRON might move to the Bitcoin-based Blockstream liquid network. As of yet, this information has not been confirmed and remains a possibility.Follow us on Facebook and Twitter and don't miss any hot news anymore! Do you like our price indices?Last Updated on 12 February, 2020