The Top Cryptocurrencies You Can Play In Online CasinosCryptocurrency betting is bigger than ever before. An ever-increasing number of online casino players are turning to cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin to bet online. Given the market, it is not surprising to see an increasing number of casinos taking advantage of the popularity of digital currencies. In this article, we'll look at some of the leading cryptocurrencies you can play with online.In 2019, an increasing number of online casinos started to offer digital currencies to their users. If players haven't yet made the jump and know next to nothing about cryptocurrency options, they may need a little push to get started. One of the best ways to do that is to play with a leading casino which offers a variety of cryptocurrencies. On top of that, it helps to play at a casino which also accepts FIAT currencies, such as the US dollar, euro and Japanese yen.By opting to play at a casino which offers both, players can gradually make the shift from FIAT to cryptocurrencies over time. This allows them to feel more comfortable when they do make the change. One such casino offering all the above is www.bitcoincasino.io.That domain can offer a variety of FIAT and cryptocurrency options. Which one should a player go with, though?The most famous of the cryptocurrencies accepted at casinos such as Bitcoin Casino is Bitcoin. It was the first cryptocurrency to debut, and many of its rivals use a similar format. Bitcoin is arguably the most straightforward digital currency players can use, as there is a wealth of information about there for them to take advantage of. Bitcoin is the most offered cryptocurrency at online casinos, although it does have counterparts which may be better suited to a player's needs.A cryptocurrency which is like Bitcoin in many ways, Litecoin is also faster and cheaper to use. Created by ex-Google employee, Charlie Lee, Litecoin creates new blocks every two and a half minutes, as opposed to the ten-minute block creation rate of Bitcoin. Litecoin can handle a larger number of transactions faster (thanks to its more rapid block creation time), and transactions are processed at just 1 / 1,000 of a Litecoin.Dogecoin first started in 2013. Unlike Bitcoin, Litecoin and others, there is no cap on the number of Dogecoins which can exist. This means that the value of Dogecoins stays relatively small but stable, especially compared to the rapid rise (and sudden fall) in the value of Bitcoin over the last two years. Dogecoin is super secure (arguably more so than other options) and is ideally used for small transactions. If players prefer to bet with small sums, Dogecoin is a suitable cryptocurrency to go with.Initially created as a Bitcoin fork, Bitcoin Cash debuted in 2017, and was developed as a way of increasing the size of blocks, allowing for faster transactions. It may be an offshoot of Bitcoin, but the basic principles (save for 32MB blocks instead of 8MB blocks) are inherently the same, including the number of coins being capped at 21 million. There are still one or two petite teething problems with the larger block size, and a few other kinks that need working out, but Bitcoin Cash is still open for business, though.Ethereum is arguably Bitcoin's biggest rival. Ethereum has a more abundant coin supply than Bitcoin and arguably better technology. It can be used for more applications than its famous rival. While Bitcoin is solely a cryptocurrency, Ethereum is a ledger technology, which can be used to create new software, programs and apps. Ethereum is also one of the faster-growing cryptocurrencies, which could be something players may wish to keep an eye on.Tether is quite a bit different from other cryptocurrencies. This one is pegged to traditional FIAT currencies, such as the US dollar, Japanese yen, or euro. Tether is built on Bitcoin's blockchain. As its name suggests, this cryptocurrency is tethered to something, and that could be the US dollar (it often is, as the US dollar is one of the most stable currencies in the world), or even precious metals and other cryptocurrencies. Tether is somewhat costly but is potentially more stable than some rival digital currencies and easier to acquire.The options listed above can all be found at top cryptocurrency betting sites, such as BitcoinCasino.io. Each has its own perks, and the popularity of them varies from player to player. It is recommended that players read up on digital currencies listed above and choose to play at casinos like Bitcoin Casino. This way, they can gradually make the jump from FIAT currency betting to cryptocurrency gambling with ease.Last Updated on 19 January, 2020