Traceability platform based on VeChain launched in ChinaVeChain, the platform specializing in IoT and blockchain application development, unveiled its new partnership. Through a publication in Medium, the VeChain Foundation together with several of its partners in the region launched the Yunnan Pu'er Tea Traceability Platform powered by VeChain.The announcement was made during the Pu'er Tea of Yunnan Conference. There were many representatives of the blockchain industry and the Chinese government. Among the attendees was also the Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences. The latter is probably one of the most interested in VeChain's work.For some time now, VeChain has been consolidating its presence in Asia. Now with their new traceability tool they will be able to use blockchain technology to maintain control and better management of Pu'er tea. This kind of tea is particularly popular in China. Just in 2018, its production volume was 172 tons, according to VeChain's publication.For this reason, the Chinese authorities have had years of problems with their administration and distribution. VeChain's new traceability tool is emerging as a viable solution. First, it will be able to guarantee that the product (Pu'er tea) is of the best quality. Due to its high demand, consumers prefer a guarantee of authenticity and origin.The governor of Yunnan province sees the VeChain tool as a solution to an important problem for local government:The blockchain-powered system will provide transparent and trustworthy tea trades benefiting both producers and customers.Finally, it became known that this VeChain tool is only one of 30 that have been registered in China. Little by little, the Asian country seems to incorporate blockchain technology into its operation.Heeding the call of the Chinese Central Government, VeChain, together with partners, announces the Yunnan Pu'er Tea Traceability Platform powered by VeChain ToolChain, which has been indexed in Chinese National Important Products Traceability System. https://t.co/FJPe0fwWxr-- VeChain Foundation (@vechainofficial) November 14, 2019As CNF have been reporting, the level of acceptance of Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies is increasing. The potential of these digital assets has been recognized by the governments of the world. VeChain is one of the companies that, like Ripple or Ethereum, are winning allies and taking their blockchain-based solutions to an international level.A relevant case is the alliance between the governments of China and France. Both countries will be able to use Foodgates, an international blockchain-based platform. Together with DNVGL and ASI, VeChain will be able to verify the origin, location and quality of products moving between countries.Its aim is to ensure that the value chain, when a product is moved, is of the highest quality. In addition, each value chain will be kept completely under supervision. This could be something beneficial for users, if it works properly. It also keeps VeChain as one of the leaders in Asia in the development of blockchain technology.It remains to be seen how the upcoming events will unfold and how these Vechain ads have a real impact on people's lives.Follow us on Facebook and Twitter and don't miss any hot news anymore! Do you like our price indexes?Last Updated on 16 November, 2019