TRON News Will Justin Sun buy the content platform SteemitJustin Sun, the founder of TRON, is known for his investment passion and the creation of marketing hypes. In the past, Sun purchased the world's largest peer-to-peer platform, BitTorrent, which once handled up to 40 percent of the world's Internet traffic. According to recent reports, Sun could take over steemit.com.According to Chinese news site huoxing24.com, Justin Sun is considering buying the Steemit content platform. The Mars Finance news platform claims that it has learned from sources in charge of the case that TRON is in the process of integrating steemite into its ecosystem. In early December, Sun caused a sensation when he announced on Twitter that he was about to take over a large distributed platform.The TRON Foundation recently announced that it is working with the mining pool, POOL-X, which is financially supported by Kucoin. However, this announcement does not fit in with what was announced at the beginning of December. According to Mars Finance, Justin Sun has announced two completed mergers through Weibo, also known as the Chinese Twitter. However, this message on Weibo was deleted a short time later, so the authenticity can only be speculated about so far.Steemit is a decentralized social media and blogging platform that builds on the Steem Blockchain and rewards users for their content by distributing the cryptocurrency of the same name. Steemit was founded in 2016 by Ned Scott and Dan Larimer.Larimer also founded the cryptcurrency BitShares and is CTO of EOS. Steemit provides a censorship-resistant network where authors can be rewarded for providing valuable Steemit content. TRON also wants to create a decentralized Web 4.0 where users can regain control over their data. Both companies would share a similar vision.So far, however, there is no official statement from either TRON or Steemit. In this respect, it is an unconfirmed rumour for the time being.Justin Sun announced on Twitter that the number of registered TRON accounts has grown from 4,190,559 to 4,262,802 within the last 14 days. However, it should be noted that this metric does not take into account how many accounts are actively used.According to @TRONSCAN_ORG, in the past 14 days, the general account on #TRON network has increased from 4,190,559 to 4,262,802, showing an evident growth trend. #TRON ecosystem is growing at a steady pace, we welcome more users and developers to join us. #TRX $TRX pic.twitter.com/rgJiqMWJaO-- Justin Sun (@justinsuntron) December 9, 2019Last week there was an outcry in the community as Jared Tate, founder of Digibyte, was harshly critical of TRON and didn't mince his words. He called TRON a marketing hype and made further heavy accusations on Twitter against TRON. As a result, Poloniex removed Digibyte from the platform a short time later.TRX's price has been showing a slight downward trend for the last 24 hours (- 2.20%) to a price of USD 0.0143.Follow us on Facebook and Twitter and don't miss any hot news anymore! Do you like our price indices?Last Updated on 10 December, 2019