TRON CEO holds Bitcoin, Ethereum and XRP – BTC price at $100,000 by 2025TRON CEO Justin Sun was a guest on CNN's "First Move" show. Sun talked about some fundamental concepts of TRON and the blockchain technology. He explained that decentralization is the feature that distinguishes a platform like TRON from big companies like Apple, Google and Facebook. Sun thinks that in the future decentralization will be necessary for all companies. A decentralized structure will allow those companies to monetize the data they manage more easily.In the interview with Julia Chatterley, Sun also referred to his lunch with billionaire Warren Buffet. The CEO of TRON had been scheduled to meet with Buffet since last year when he won a lunch at a charity auction. It later became known that the lunch cost him around $4.5 million. As reported by Crypto News Flash, the money was donated to the GLIDE Foundation. This foundation fights against injustice and inequality of economically disadvantaged people.Sun gave Buffet his first Bitcoin and put it on the list of holders with more than 1 BTC. In addition, Chatterley asked Sun if he holds other cryptocurrencies besides TRX:Basically, I'm a crypto believer, so I converted like all my assets in 2013. These days I only exchange the crypto to fiat if I need to spend money in my daily life... I own lots of XRP and Ethereum too. I'm a long-term believer in crypto, so I want all the crypto assets to succeed. That's why I own lots of the other different cryptos as well.Sun didn't saiy how much TRX, Bitcoin, Ethereum and XRP he owns to date. TRON's CEO was optimistic about the cryptomarket and said he expects a bull market for all cryptocurrencies to come soon. This bullish market, according to Sun, will lead BTC to $100,000 in 2025 or even earlier:I definitely believe Bitcoin will pass $100k in 2025. I believe maybe we can even achieve this price before 2025. At the same I time, I believe lots of the other cryptocurrency projects, like Tron, like Ethereum, like XRP - I believe all [these]projects will also get into a bull market as well.Binance CEO Changpeng Zhao recognized Justin Sun's work on his Twitter account. Zhao said that despite personal opinions, the CEO of TRON is working hard on promoting the platform.An introduction to @Tronfoundation network founder CEO @justinsuntron - we talk disrupting digital content sharing, buying @BitTorrent, crypto investing and his $4.5M lunch with Warren Buffett! #XRP #TRX #BTC on @firstmove/@cnni this week. pic.twitter.com/WW3Pnd9QcZ-- Julia Chatterley (@jchatterleyCNN) February 23, 2020At the time of publication,TRX is trading at $0.020 and records losses of 1.64% in the last 24 hours.Follow us on Facebook and Twitter and don't miss any hot news anymore! Do you like our price indices?Last Updated on 24 February, 2020