TRON, EOS and BNB listed on McAfeeDEXDecentralised exchanges are regarded as the trading centre of the future, as they operate completely autonomously without a central authority. The best known decentralized exchanges are Uniswap, DevesiFi, Bancor, Changelly or KyberSwap. These exchanges all have in common that they are not operated or controlled by any company. John McAfee also recently launched its own decentralized exchange.The decentralized exchange of tech guru and multiple millionaire John McAfee entered beta on October 07 2019. The exchange will initially be based on the Ethereum blockchain. Furthermore, the exchange does not need a name, documents, email address or bank account for a person to trade on it. In addition, no transaction data will be publicly transmitted.According to McAfee, no data is stored or shared with third parties. In addition, there will be no trading restrictions or listing fees. The platform will charge 0% maker fees and 0.25% taker fees for providing the services offered.Yesterday McAfee announced on Twitter that TRON will be added to the exchange portfolio on November 8, 2019. All TRC10 and TRC20 tokens will also be supported. In an interview, he further states that NEO, BNB and EOS will follow in the first quarter of 2020.pic.twitter.com/XYz5O9AC8X-- John McAfee (@officialmcafee) November 2, 2019McAfee developed the exchange so that people would get the power over their money back and no bank or other institution would intervene. In addition, governments won't be able to access the platform or collect information about transactions they have made. All transactions on the platform will be anonymous and untraceable.Trading on a decentralised exchange is completely anonymous, so that no one can trace which trades were executed when. In addition, the private keys remain in the possession of the users, so that the exchange does not manage them. The biggest advantage is the usually low fees for trading digital assets.Despite the advantages described above, centralized exchanges such as Binance or Coinbase have not lost any users. On the contrary, the number of users on these exchanges continues to rise today. Whether McAfeeDex will be more successful than the existing exchanges remains to be seen.