TRON is a Highly Centralized Project, Ex-CTO SaysTRON's co-founder Lucien Chen has left the position of CTO at the company, citing the excessive centralization of the decentralized project."The reason for leaving is very simple. As a technical man, I feel very sad that the TRON has departed from the faith of 'decentralize the web,'" Chen wrote in a Medium post.Discover Barcelona Trading Conference - A Top Tier Crypto Trading EventIn 2017, Chen joined Justin Sun to decentralize the digital entertainment industry and also to bring existing internet applications on the decentralized platform. First launched on Ethereum's blockchain, TRON migrated to its native blockchain network last year.Citing the deviation of the decentralized projects from its core principles, Chen noted: "The DPOS mechanism of TRON is pseudo-decentralized. The top 27 SR nodes (block nodes) have more than 170 million TRX votes, and most of them are controlled by TRON. It's hard for other latecomers to become the block nodes so they cannot participate in the process of block production."Suggested articlesSpectre.ai Launches World's First Hyper-API and Mobile App!Go to article >>Spectre.ai Launches World's First Hyper-API and Mobile App!Go to article >>He claimed that only a handful of nodes control more than 90 percent of the votes on TRON with a few voters."The total number of TRX in TRON is 100 billion, while the total number of votes for the super representatives is just less than 8 billion," he added.He also pointed out that "real internet applications" cannot function on TRON' network, though it was specifically developed to host those applications."The spirit of the blockchain is decentralized, while TRON project is centralized," Chen critically added. "Token distribution is centralized, Super Representatives are centralized, code development is centralized. Even the community is organized under centralization. No diverse voices in TRON ecosystem. The whole project has developed into a monetary tool without any 'decentralize the web' spirit."Chen revealed that he is now launching his own decentralized project called Volume Network. He ensured that his new project will follow the principles of blockchain and will focus on mining-based decentralization.