VeChain New partnerships and new VeChain Explorer releasedVeChain cooperates with companies from many different industries, such as the automotive, pharmaceutical, logistics, education and insurance industries. Since its official launch, VeChain has been able to demonstrate a functioning product that goes far beyond its use as a Fiat currency replacement.Kevin Feng, COO at VeChain, announced on Twitter that an EMBA class from Fudan University met at VeChain to discuss current developments in business, information technology and the blockchain industry. The focus was on promoting the exchange of knowledge between representatives of industry, education and business.Glad to host the EMBA class of Fudan University in the VeChain office. Enjoyed the sharing and discussion with experts from China Computer Federation and Ministry of Industry and Information Technology. pic.twitter.com/M1bpmHZ44q-- Kevin Feng (@kfeng027) December 4, 2019So far, VeForger Explorer and VeForge Vault for Ledger have been provided by Totien Labs. However, in mid-October, the company suddenly stopped working with VeForger and completely stopped developing these products. Since then, VeChain itself has tried to develop a replacement so that VeChain users can use the products as usual.As a result, the VeChain community launched its own VeChain Explorer yesterday. Although VeChain will soon publish an official VeChain Explorer, Kevin Feng thanked the community and emphasized that community developments are important for the further development of the project:Really appreciate this! Although we are going to launch an official explorer, it's important that it would co-exist with the community explorers like Vexplorer and @VeChainStats.Cointelegraph is one of the world's leading media conglomerates that last week announced the official launch of a blockchain consulting service. Since VeChain already has many partnerships and experience in this area, VeChain joins the consulting team as another partner.The consulting team is committed to promoting the adoption and deployment of blockchain-based services and integrations for companies of all sizes. VeChain further says (freely translated):As a partner of VeChain, Cointelegraph Consulting will directly recommend their enterprise clients and partners to use and integrate VeChain's enterprise blockchain solutions as they see fit to leverage the full potential of the VeChainThor public blockchain.Through the direct recommendation of VeChainThor Blockchain, the adaptation and acceptance of the technologies provided by VeChain can be further promoted and confidence in the blockchain supported. The VeChain ToolChain(tm) is an easy and fast to integrate developer suite that allows companies to integrate the blockchain into their own company.Most recently, VeChain has gained a shoe manufacturer from Australia, Chase Shiel, and DNP Group, with a market capitalization of more than $10 billion, as new partners. VET's price has increased by more than 20% to $0.0069 over the last 30 days as a result of a buyback program by the VeChain Foundation as well as numerous new partnerships.Follow us on Facebook and Twitter and don't miss any hot news anymore! Do you like our price indices?Last Updated on 5 December, 2019