VeChain announces Community Contributor Awards 2019VeChain grew strongly last year and was able to establish numerous new partnerships. The VeChain community has developed many own projects for the ecosystem and has contributed a considerable part to the further growth. VeChain wants to thank the communitiy and has therefore announced that the Community Contributor Awards 2019 will be distributed soon.VeChain has been able to realize new enterprise level use cases worldwide through innovative partnerships. Furthermore, the governance model was adapted and the VeChain Whitepaper 2.0 was published. With the decentralized voting platform VeVote VeChain was able to reach another milestone on the way to decentralization. Thus VeChain remains true to the guiding principle of the company "Community-first". VeChain says:We would also like to thank our talented community developers that continue to work hard to introduce more and more useful tools for the best interest of the community. Their help to expand the VeChainThor blockchain ecosystem with invaluable services and tools have greatly assisted every stakeholder in our ecosystem.As a reward for the strong cooperation VeChain presents the Community Contributor Awards. From now on all members can vote on who is eligible for the awards. Self-nominations are allowed, with the entire community deciding whether someone should receive an award. The following nominees can participate in the competition:Technical Developers, Community Administrators, Influencers, Evangelists, Content Creators, and Any Community Member who has contributed significant efforts for the greater good of the VeChain Ecosystem.Members of the Steering Committee and staff of the Foundation as well as consultants are excluded from participation. Nominations, including self nominations, must be submitted to the VeChain Foundation by January 5, 2020, 22:00 (UTC+8). All winners will receive an exclusive VeChain New Year gift set.The first all-stakeholder vote on the VeChain Thor Blockchain was successfully completed a few days ago. 99.06% voted to block the addresses of the stolen 1.1 million VET from the hack that became known in mid-December. VeChain has proven in this situation that a decentralized community can react quickly and solve even such big problems.The price of VET has been trending sideways (- 0.81%) within the last 24 hours, following the general market sentiment.Follow us on Facebook and Twitter and don't miss any hot news anymore! Do you like our price indices?Last Updated on 3 January, 2020