VP of Catalonia to Kick Off Barcelona Trading Conference with Keynote SpeechThe Barcelona Trading Conference (BTC) is one of the most anticipated events of the summer and will be here in a little over a month. A star-studded roster of big-name speakers continues to grow ahead of the event. This includes the most recent addition of Pere Aragones i Garcia, Vice President, and Minister of Economy and Finance, of the Catalan Government.The Barcelona Trading Conference will be held at the International Convention Center, on July 10-11. Hosted by Finance Magnates, the event will serve as a gathering and meeting point for the industry's marquee executives and key players.Discover the Barcelona Trading Conference - A Top Tier Crypto Trading EventBarcelona is quickly emerging as an important hub for crypto and blockchain investment. The city's importance and strategic location will be on full display, with attendees and speakers localized in one venue."Catalonia and Barcelona are taking on a leading role, thanks to the support of the Government of Catalonia, through the implementation of policies for companies in the technology sector. Barcelona boasts an excellent microclimate for technological innovation and Catalonia is a multicultural, international region that attracts talent from all over the world. There is no question that Barcelona is positioning itself as a benchmark in the technology sector to the point of being the new technology hub of the European Union," explained Mr. Aragones.Suggested articlesSpectre.ai Launches World's First Hyper-API and Mobile App!Go to article >>Spectre.ai Launches World's First Hyper-API and Mobile App!Go to article >>Mr. Aragones will be kicking off the Barcelona Trading Conference with a keynote speech and welcome address for attendees. If you have not already done so, make sure to familiarize yourself with the event as well as it's jam-packed agenda.The city of Barcelona has also solidified itself as a city to watch in the blockchain space. Its role as a developing crypto hub will be on full display during the duration of the Barcelona Trading Conference. Make sure not to miss one of the most important events in the space in 2019.According to Mr. Aragones, "The Government of Catalonia is keen to promote this technology which has the potential to modify, on a global scale, the way in which traditional digital services are delivered to the public sector, industry and the general public."