What is Tether (USDT) Beginner guide and chronicle of the controversyTether, abbreviated USDT, is a cryptocurrency whose value is linked to the US dollar. Put simply, you could say that USDT is a cryptocurrency version of the US dollar. The value of Tether should preferably remain at a stable level of USD 1.00 and should not deviate more or less than 1 cent from the US dollar. Since the company is not a bank after Tether, Tether Limited, and is therefore not entitled to print money, the company undertakes to maintain reserves in USD at a ratio of 1:1 to the USDT.However, it is important to note that Tether Limited is not obliged to exchange tether for US dollars. The legals expressly state:There is no contractual right or other right or remedy against us to exchange or exchange your Tethers for money. We do not guarantee any right of return or exchange of Tethers by us for money. There is no guarantee against losses when you buy, trade, sell or redeem Tethers.Numerous critics strongly doubt whether the company behind Tether actually holds US dollars in a ratio of 1:1 to Tether and have never been sufficiently proven by Tether. More about this later in the Tether controversy.The fact is, however, that tether enjoyed growing popularity in 2017. The fixed price link to the US dollar exchange rate on numerous crypto currency exchanges such as Binance, Poloniex and Bittrex has led to Tether replacing trading in Fiat currencies.Tether has practically become the standard trading pair on almost all major crypto currency exchanges. And not without reason. Tether offers numerous advantages over the exchange for Fiat:Due to the importance of tether on many major crypto currency exchanges, USDT has become virtually synonymous with the Fiat price. As long as a tether actually represents the value of a USD, this seems harmless. However, if Tether Limited could print money out of nothing and thus control the market according to its own interests, this would be very questionable.Similar to a central bank, Tether Limited could pursue a pricing policy to promote its own interests.  For example, Tether Limited may have issued new USDT to boost the market. Bitfinex may have benefited from increased trading volume due to the fees charged.In June 2018, researchers at the University of Texas published a study to prove that Tether was used to support the price of Bitcoin in times of market downturns. Further studies have also dealt with the topic. However, some of the studies have come to different conclusions. Other studies point to an insignificant influence and other, more important factors for the market movement at the end of 2017. Nevertheless, it is noticeable that very often new tether were printed when the Bitcoin price was at an important support point.In addition, however, there are also great doubts as to whether tether is actually covered 1:1 with the US dollar on a bank account. From October 2017, approximately USDT 1.8 billion was spent within three months, although Wells Fargo ceased to be a banking partner during this period.  In addition, several attempts at an audit by external auditors have failed. In 2017, for example, Tether Limited commissioned the auditing company Friedman, LLP to carry out an audit. However, after 5 months Tether broke off the test without a result.Last Updated on 27 June, 2019