  A formality called EIAEnvironment ministry invites comments to amendment that dilutes environmental clearance 

THE  latest amendment to the environment impact assessment (eia)  notification that is supposed to expedite 
environmental clearance for development   projects, is now open for public comment. The  eia  notification, 1994, 
mandated environmental clearance for all infrastructure and development activities but the new amendment proposes waiving such clearance for 
some.  

The union environment ministry justified the amendment saying it would streamline processes and clear the backlog of projects awaiting 
approval. The amendment waives  eia  for projects that increase capacity or modernize infrastructure without 
increasing pollution load and do not require additional land or water. Self-certification is enough to get a waiver. Environmentalist P R Arun of 
non-proft Green Alternatives said it is a move to dilute the law and help the industry.  

As per the amendment, consulting the public will not be required for certain township projects that decide to expand after obtaining 
clearance--provided the expansion is less than 50 per cent of what is cleared. Projects that are delayed due to non-formation of state  eia  authorities will get exemption from scoping (ascertaining the scope of  eia  report and 
the natural resources the project will affect) for three years after the amendment comes into effect.  

"Earlier all such projects needed clearance from the Centre and this should have stayed," said P R Arun. He said for  eia 
 to be relevant, independent mechanism is needed. The draft amendment was the subject of an  rti  
application by Manju Menon of the non-profit Kalpavriksh. The central information commission then directed  moef  to get feedback on the amendment from civil society groups.  We are a voice to you; you have been a support to us. Together we build journalism that is independent, credible and fearless. You can further help us by making a donation. This will mean a lot for our ability to bring you news, perspectives and analysis from the ground so that we can make change together.Comments are moderated and will be published only after the site moderator's approval. Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name. Selected comments may also be used in the 'Letters' section of the Down To Earth print edition.