  Cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of propertywhoever  cheats and thereby dishonestly induces the person deceived to deliver any property to any person, or to 
make, alter or destroy the whole or any part of a valuable security, or anything which is signed or sealed, and which is capable of being converted 
into a valuable security, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to seven years, and shall also be 
liable to fine.
-Section 420 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 
Dishonesty hit the atmosphere
the  irony of a cover story on climate change is too unsubtle to miss in this 420th issue of the magazine. A fraudulent 
attempt to sabotage a 15-year multilateral process has brought into the debate even those who never discuss it because climate change politics 
is immediate enoughand dirty enoughto compete with any other cloak-and-dagger political intrigue story.  

It has been obvious from the beginning the rich countries do not want to pay for what they need to do. They agreed to common but differentiated 
responsibilities under a moral obligation, but now, there is no fig leaf. They openly run down the idea of equal entitlements to the atmosphere. 
They do not even blush before disowning responsibility for the historical emission that caused the climate to change. They do not want to offer 
financial and technological help to poorer countries to achieve growth without carbon emission. What they are on the lookout for is opportunity to 
fish in dirty water, make money out of climate change. More obvious fraudulent behaviour is not easy to identify.  

But it is the environment ministers letter to the prime minister that has been the talk of the town. It suggested an about-turn in Indias position to 
align it with climate criminals of the world. It cannot be ignored as an innocent effort of a dealmaker.  

Fraudulent behaviour has always marked climate negotiations. Trusting the market to tackle climate change is itself dishonestyhow can a 
problem get solved by the tools of an economic system that created it in the first place?
Aubergine with the new gene
there  are valid concerns that the poor farmers of Indiafour-fifths are small and marginalshould not be left to the 
vicissitudes of the market. Countries that promote the private sector in agriculture can do so because they have millions of dollars of subsidies to 
protect their farmers. The Indian government, though, wants the farmer to live off the private sector without any real support. Genetically modified 
crops are driven entirely by the private sectors profit motive.  

The big fraud in Indias GM story, though, is on the consumer. The government has never had a public debate on whether we need GM food. It is 
controversial across the world, and the precautionary principlethe bedrock of health and environmental regulationsdemands it not be allowed 
till all reasonable doubts have been allayed. Without labelling, the consumer cannot make an informed choice. Regulators say they know all they 
need to know and the consumer should trust them.  

Indias regulators of genetically modified crops have been viewed with suspicion for their proximity to industry. They occupy an office that requires 
they defend the trust Indians place in the government. That trust requires the reasons for their decisions are public, unambiguous and in line with 
their mandate. Instead, the regulatory system works under industrys influence. This is defrauding public trust.
The name of the toxic game
a ship  awaiting breaking at the Alang yard in Gujarat has a murky past. Activists have shown the ships owners 
changed its name to dodge US regulations that prevent sending toxic materials, including ships, to other countries for recycling. The Basel 
Convention, an international treaty, bars rich countries from dumping their toxic wastes on poor countries.  

The fraud here is not limited to the owners registering the ship under a new name. The shipbreaking yards owners, who compromise health and 
safety of workers, are equally fraudulent.   We are a voice to you; you have been a support to us. Together we build journalism that is independent, credible and fearless. You can further help us by making a donation. This will mean a lot for our ability to bring you news, perspectives and analysis from the ground so that we can make change together.Comments are moderated and will be published only after the site moderator's approval. Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name. Selected comments may also be used in the 'Letters' section of the Down To Earth print edition.