  Deforestation, agriculture triggered soil erosion 4,000 years ago StudyHuman activities such as agriculture and deforestation intensified global soil erosion 4,000 years ago, according to a study.
While weathering of soil and erosion have, since millennia, known to be controlled by changing climatic patterns and tectonic impacts of the planet, the new study suggests a role of human practices and land use-change.
Soil erosion has a direct impacts on climate and society, as it decreases the productivity of ecosystems and changes nutrient cycles
For the study, a team of researchers from the Max Planck Institute, a Germany-based non-profit, used radiocarbon dating techniques recorded temporal changes of soil erosion by analysing sediment deposits in more than 600 lakes worldwide.
Of these, 35 per cent showed an increasing sediment accumulation approximately 4,000 years ago, said Nuno Carvalhais, group leader at Max Planck Institute for Biogeochemistry.
To understand the cause they analysed pollen fossil records and observed a decline in the tree cover. 
The decrease indicated "land-cover changes, in particular land clearances, eg, for agriculture and settlement, that, in turn, are likely to lead to soil degradation and erosion," said French geoscientist Jean-Philippe Jenny from the varsity.
Changes in land cover was identified as the main driver of soil erosion in 70 per cent of all studied watersheds. This suggests that human practices intensified soil erosion much before the advent of industrialisation.
Socio-economic developments during human settlements also correlated with sediment accumulation in lakes, a proxy for soil erosion. 
For example: Soil erosion was delayed in North America than in Europe. It was because agricultural practices was introduced to North America, only after colonisation.
"On the contrary, the decrease of soil erosion in 23 per cent of sites is likely associated with increased water use and river management practices, especially in the Roman and Chinese empires 3,000 years ago," showed the study.Human activities such as agriculture and deforestation intensified global soil erosion 4,000 years ago, according to a study.While weathering of soil and erosion have, since millennia, known to be controlled by changing climatic patterns and tectonic impacts of the planet, the new study suggests a role of human practices and land use-change.Soil erosion has a direct impacts on climate and society, as it decreases the productivity of ecosystems and changes nutrient cyclesFor the study, a team of researchers from the Max Planck Institute, a Germany-based non-profit, used radiocarbon dating techniques recorded temporal changes of soil erosion by analysing sediment deposits in more than 600 lakes worldwide.Of these, 35 per cent showed an increasing sediment accumulation approximately 4,000 years ago, said Nuno Carvalhais, group leader at Max Planck Institute for Biogeochemistry.To understand the cause they analysed pollen fossil records and observed a decline in the tree cover. The decrease indicated "land-cover changes, in particular land clearances, eg, for agriculture and settlement, that, in turn, are likely to lead to soil degradation and erosion," said French geoscientist Jean-Philippe Jenny from the varsity.Changes in land cover was identified as the main driver of soil erosion in 70 per cent of all studied watersheds. This suggests that human practices intensified soil erosion much before the advent of industrialisation.Socio-economic developments during human settlements also correlated with sediment accumulation in lakes, a proxy for soil erosion. For example: Soil erosion was delayed in North America than in Europe. It was because agricultural practices was introduced to North America, only after colonisation."On the contrary, the decrease of soil erosion in 23 per cent of sites is likely associated with increased water use and river management practices, especially in the Roman and Chinese empires 3,000 years ago," showed the study.We are a voice to you; you have been a support to us. Together we build journalism that is independent, credible and fearless. You can further help us by making a donation. This will mean a lot for our ability to bring you news, perspectives and analysis from the ground so that we can make change together.Comments are moderated and will be published only after the site moderator's approval. Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name. Selected comments may also be used in the 'Letters' section of the Down To Earth print edition.