  Excess nitrogen fertilisers hamper germination, root growth in rice studyExcessive use of nitrogen, phosphate and potassium based fertilisers is causing environmental contamination and abuse of fertiliser subsidies. Now Indian scientists have identified rice cultivars that are efficient in nitrogen use.
The study also shows that excess of nitrogen compounds such as urea and nitrate in the soil can increase the time required for germination of rice seeds and also limit their root length. The study has been published in journal Frontiers in Plant Science.
Researchers surveyed 21 rice varieties and categorised them as slow (Panvel 1, Triguna and Vikramarya) and fast (Aditya, Nidhi and Swarnadhan) based on time they took to germinate. It was found that all varieties take longer to germinate in soils supplemented with additional nitrogenous compounds. However, the magnitude of delay is more for slow germinating varieties as they are more 'nitrogen responsive' and effectively utilise nitrogen compounds.
In addition, slow germinating varieties (long duration varieties) gave better yields when not supplied with additional urea relative to fast germinating varieties (short duration varieties). Also, at the lower levels of the nitrogen, longer duration varieties showed lesser yield losses as compared to short duration genotypes possibly due to their better nitrogen use efficiency.
"Our study shows that in laboratory conditions, excess of nitrogenous compounds such as nitrate and urea restrict root growth. In future, we would like to extend our work to field to check if similar patterns exist there as well," explained N Raghuram, Professor at Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University and a member of the research team.
"This study is important as it suggests that integration of crop varieties that demonstrate nitrogen-use efficiency will lower fertiliser load in fields and environment. In addition, such varieties can be grown efficiently in marginalised lands for increased production," commented Anandita Singh, Professor at TERI School of Advanced Studies, who is not connected to the study.
The research teamincluded Narendra Sharma, Vimlendu Bhushan Sinha, Neha Gupta, Soumya Rajpal and N. Raghuram (Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University); Surekha Kuchi (Indian Institute of Rice Research, Hyderabad); Vetury Sitaramam (Former professor, Savitribai Phule Pune University) and Rajender Parsad (Indian Agricultural Statistics Research Institute, New Delhi). The study was supported by the Indian Council of Agricultural Research and the Department of Biotechnology. (India Science Wire)Excessive use of nitrogen, phosphate and potassium based fertilisers is causing environmental contamination and abuse of fertiliser subsidies. Now Indian scientists have identified rice cultivars that are efficient in nitrogen use.The study also shows that excess of nitrogen compounds such as urea and nitrate in the soil can increase the time required for germination of rice seeds and also limit their root length. The study has been published in journal Frontiers in Plant Science.Researchers surveyed 21 rice varieties and categorised them as slow (Panvel 1, Triguna and Vikramarya) and fast (Aditya, Nidhi and Swarnadhan) based on time they took to germinate. It was found that all varieties take longer to germinate in soils supplemented with additional nitrogenous compounds. However, the magnitude of delay is more for slow germinating varieties as they are more 'nitrogen responsive' and effectively utilise nitrogen compounds.In addition, slow germinating varieties (long duration varieties) gave better yields when not supplied with additional urea relative to fast germinating varieties (short duration varieties). Also, at the lower levels of the nitrogen, longer duration varieties showed lesser yield losses as compared to short duration genotypes possibly due to their better nitrogen use efficiency."Our study shows that in laboratory conditions, excess of nitrogenous compounds such as nitrate and urea restrict root growth. In future, we would like to extend our work to field to check if similar patterns exist there as well," explained N Raghuram, Professor at Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University and a member of the research team."This study is important as it suggests that integration of crop varieties that demonstrate nitrogen-use efficiency will lower fertiliser load in fields and environment. In addition, such varieties can be grown efficiently in marginalised lands for increased production," commented Anandita Singh, Professor at TERI School of Advanced Studies, who is not connected to the study.The research teamincluded Narendra Sharma, Vimlendu Bhushan Sinha, Neha Gupta, Soumya Rajpal and N. Raghuram (Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University); Surekha Kuchi (Indian Institute of Rice Research, Hyderabad); Vetury Sitaramam (Former professor, Savitribai Phule Pune University) and Rajender Parsad (Indian Agricultural Statistics Research Institute, New Delhi). The study was supported by the Indian Council of Agricultural Research and the Department of Biotechnology. (India Science Wire)We are a voice to you; you have been a support to us. Together we build journalism that is independent, credible and fearless. You can further help us by making a donation. This will mean a lot for our ability to bring you news, perspectives and analysis from the ground so that we can make change together. India Environment Portal Resources : 

Phenotyping for nitrogen use efficiency: Rice genotypes differ in N-responsive germination, oxygen consumption, seed urease activities, root growth, crop duration, and yield at low N

The nitrogen balancing act: Tracking the environmental performance of food production

Methane and nitrous oxide emissions from conventional and modified rice cultivation systems in South India

Continental drivers of ammonium and nitrate in Australian soil under different land uses


Comments are moderated and will be published only after the site moderator's approval. Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name. Selected comments may also be used in the 'Letters' section of the Down To Earth print edition.