GRAINS-U.S. wheat, corn fall on profit taking after rally3 Min Read(Recasts, updates with U.S. trading, adds new analyst quote, changes byline/dateline; pvs PARIS/SINGAPORE) By Mark Weinraub CHICAGO, Feb 19 (Reuters) - U.S. wheat and corn futures fell on Wednesday on profit taking from the previous session's strong rally, grain dealers said. Soybean futures were higher but gains were kept in check as the market waited for Chinese purchases, the day after Beijing said it would issue exemptions on retaliatory import duties imposed on nearly 700 U.S. goods including soybeans. Chicago Board of Trade March soft red winter wheat futures were down 1.1%, with the less-active K.C. hard red winter wheat and MGEX spring wheat contracts posting sharper declines. "Yesterday was probably a little overdone in the wheat market," said Jim Gerlach, president of Indiana-based A/C Trading. "You are seeing a little bit of back and fill today." Tuesday's rally of more than 4% in wheat was triggered by news of a further cut to Australia's official estimate of its drought-hit harvest, with the movement finding additional fuel from chart-based buying. At 11:18 a.m. CST (1718 GMT), CBOT March wheat was off 6 cents at $5.60-3/4 a bushel. Strength in the dollar, which makes U.S. wheat relatively more expensive to overseas buyers and dims export prospects, also contributed to the bearish tone. The U.S. dollar climbed to near a three-year high against a basket of other currencies, strengthening on data that showed U.S. homebuilding fell less than expected in January while permits surged to a near 13-year high. The figures could support the Federal Reserve's desire to keep interest rates unchanged, underpinning the greenback. CBOT March corn was down 3 cents at $3.80 a bushel. March soybeans were up 3-1/2 cents at $8.95-3/4 a bushel, finding technical support after dropping below their 10-day moving average for the first time since Feb. 11. "Nobody wants to get too bearish with China lowering all those tariffs getting ready to buy," A/C Trading's Gerlach said. "(But) they want to see some sales before the bulls take charge." Prospects for China ramping up agricultural purchases have been clouded by the coronavirus epidemic that has killed around 2,000 people and disrupted travel and business activity. Chinese import needs in soybeans have also been dented by a pig disease crisis that has reduced demand for feed. Grain markets were also looking ahead to crop forecasts expected at a Feb. 20-21 conference organized by the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), which may give clues to U.S. planting trends and expectations of export demand. Additional reporting by Gus Trompiz and Forrest Crellin in
Paris and Naveen Thukral in Singapore, Editing by Sherry
Jacob-Phillips, Subhranshu Sahu and David GregorioAll quotes delayed a minimum of 15 minutes. See here for a complete list of exchanges and delays.(c) 2020 Reuters. All Rights Reserved.