  Kisan Mukti March Farmers from across India take to Delhi roadsFarmers from across the country--reportedly attached with more than 200 organisations--Thursday morning started their march from different points at the periphery of New Delhi towards the heart of the Capital.
They had started gathering at designated places from Wednesday night, braving the cold with woollen shawls. The two-day Kisan Mukti March, led by All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), will see farmers marching to Ramlila Grounds to demand a farm loan waiver and a guaranteed price for farm produce. This will be the fourth farmers' protest in Delhi in the last one and a half year.
"A train full of farmers mostly from southern India reached Nizamuddin railway station at 4 in the morning," says Vijoo Krishnan, joint secretary of the All India Kisan Sabha.
The protest, which is, will see farmers gather at Ramlila Grounds to demand a discussion on agrarian crisis in a 21-day joint Parliament session.
While farmers coming from southern states like Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Maharashtra will start their march from Nizamuddin railway station, those joining from the western state of Rajasthan would gather at the outskirts of Delhi Bijwasan and others coming in from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and West Bengal will first gather at Anand Vihar railway station.
Farmers from Punjab, Haryana, Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh gathered at Delhi's Kishanganj sabji mandi
VM Singh, convener of AIKCC, says, "Government only takes farmers seriously when the elections are around the corner."Farmers from across the country--reportedly attached with more than 200 organisations--Thursday morning started their march from different points at the periphery of New Delhi towards the heart of the Capital.They had started gathering at designated places from Wednesday night, braving the cold with woollen shawls. The two-day Kisan Mukti March, led by All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), will see farmers marching to Ramlila Grounds to demand a farm loan waiver and a guaranteed price for farm produce. This will be the fourth farmers' protest in Delhi in the last one and a half year."A train full of farmers mostly from southern India reached Nizamuddin railway station at 4 in the morning," says Vijoo Krishnan, joint secretary of the All India Kisan Sabha.The protest, which is, will see farmers gather at Ramlila Grounds to demand a discussion on agrarian crisis in a 21-day joint Parliament session.While farmers coming from southern states like Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Maharashtra will start their march from Nizamuddin railway station, those joining from the western state of Rajasthan would gather at the outskirts of Delhi Bijwasan and others coming in from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and West Bengal will first gather at Anand Vihar railway station.Farmers from Punjab, Haryana, Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh gathered at Delhi's Kishanganj sabji mandiVM Singh, convener of AIKCC, says, "Government only takes farmers seriously when the elections are around the corner."We are a voice to you; you have been a support to us. Together we build journalism that is independent, credible and fearless. You can further help us by making a donation. This will mean a lot for our ability to bring you news, perspectives and analysis from the ground so that we can make change together. India Environment Portal Resources : 

Order of the Supreme Court of India regarding loans for the incoming agricultural season, India, 02/05/2018

Report of the Committee on Doubling Farmers' Income: Volume VI - strategies for sustainability in agriculture (Ashok Dalwai Committee)

Order of the Supreme Court of India regarding awareness amongst the farmers about Minimum Support Price (MSP), Tamil Nadu, 03/05/2017

Report of the Committee for Doubling Farmers' Income: Volume III- post-production agri-logistics: maximising gains for farmers (Ashok Dalwai Comittee)

Supreme Court order on farmers suicide in Tamil Nadu, 13/04/2017


Comments are moderated and will be published only after the site moderator's approval. Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name. Selected comments may also be used in the 'Letters' section of the Down To Earth print edition.