LIVESTOCK-U.S. hog futures rise in 2019 as pig fever hits China3 Min ReadCHICAGO, Dec 31 (Reuters) - U.S. hog futures rose in 2019 on hopes China will further increase pork imports as an outbreak of a fatal pig disease ravaged the Chinese herd. Prices eased on Tuesday as traders adjusted positions and booked some profits before the end of the year. The African swine fever disease has reshaped global meat markets by pushing China to search the world for meat to replace millions of dead pigs. The United States has been at a disadvantage to other suppliers such as Europe since last year because Beijing imposed retaliatory tariffs on imports of American pork as part of the countries' trade war. U.S. President Donald Trump said the so-called Phase 1 of a trade deal with Beijing would be signed on Jan. 15 at the White House. China has committed to buying more U.S. farm products under the agreement, although details have not been announced. "If there's one commodity that you would think the Chinese would earmark, it would be the pork," said Don Roose, president of U.S. broker U.S. Commodities. Most actively traded February lean hog futures sagged 0.375 cent to 71.425 cents per pound at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange on Tuesday. However, the contract ended up 7.9% for the year. American farmers hope China eliminates its retaliatory tariffs or issues more waivers to tariffs in 2020. They see pork sales to China as a once in a lifetime opportunity during the African swine fever outbreak. The disease has cut China's pig herd by more than 40% and China said it will sell more frozen pork from its state reserves to ensure supplies. "Our prices are cheap, well under China," Roose said. "You would think it's logical you'd have the big buying." For January through October, the latest data that is available, U.S. pork exports to China and Hong Kong were up 55% in volume and 34% in value, according to the U.S. Meat Export Federation, a trade group. Exports to the region already exceeded the full-year totals of 2018. U.S. supplies of pork remain ample after farmers expanded the herd to a record number of hogs. Cattle supplies are also plentiful, and domestic and export demand for beef has been strong. Most actively traded February live cattle futures slipped 0.500 cent to 125.925 cents per pound at the CME and ended up 6.5% on the year. March feeder cattle futures dipped 0.275 cent to 144.225 cents per pound. (Reporting by Tom Polansek in Chicago; editing by Grant McCool)All quotes delayed a minimum of 15 minutes. See here for a complete list of exchanges and delays.(c) 2020 Reuters. All Rights Reserved.