  Low highsPhosphorous, abundant soon  
nitrogen,  phosphorous and potassium are the three major nutrients required for plant growth. An increase in the 
world's population has, in turn, increased the dependence on agriculture in the last few decades. And agriculture has been made possible 
primarily due to extensive use of chemical fertilizers made from those elements.   

There is a shortage of global resources of phosphates--the minerals from which phosphorous fertilizers are made. For a country like India which 
is dependent on agriculture, natural abundance of phosphates is abysmally low--only 142 out of a total of 306 tonnes found here are of high 
grade.   

As a major part of India's deposits are in the form of low grade ores (lgo), the country needs to import most of the 
phosphorous fertilizers. Therefore, there is a pressing need to develop ways to utilize the low grade phosphorous deposits. Scientists at 
Mohanlal Sukhadia University in Udaipur showed how this may be done.  

The researchers decided to produce fused calcium magnesium phosphate (fcmp)  from low grade ores.  fcmp  is a fertilizer that is currently produced by fusing high grade phosphate ore with additional materials such as olivine 
(magnesium iron silicate), which has to be mined exclusively for this purpose. The team fused low grade ores with additives such as serpentinite 
(available as a waste product of the decorative stone  industry), quartz, magnesium oxide and silica. The right ratio of these additives yielded the 
fertilizer. 
fcmp  is a slow release fertilizer: it releases phosphorous to the plants in a sustained manner. 
This is because it is water-insoluble and does not get washed away during irrigation or heavy rains. This allows it to be retained by the soil over 
an extended time period. Although used worldwide,  fcmp  is expensive and not commercially viable in countries 
like India.  

The method is cheap and no solid waste is generated. "This could help us utilize large reserves of low grade ores," the authors wrote in their 
paper published in the March 25 issue of  Current Science. "The process is electric-power centric but within the next few years India 
should have sufficient nuclear power ",  said Pushpendra Ranawat, the lead author of the study.   We are a voice to you; you have been a support to us. Together we build journalism that is independent, credible and fearless. You can further help us by making a donation. This will mean a lot for our ability to bring you news, perspectives and analysis from the ground so that we can make change together.Comments are moderated and will be published only after the site moderator's approval. Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name. Selected comments may also be used in the 'Letters' section of the Down To Earth print edition.