  Name giving day
Acompetition motivated by a solemn idea--to highlight the extinction of animals and plants in the UK--ended with touches of poetry and artistic brilliance.

In June, the British daily, The Guardian, announced a competition to name some lesser known and threatened insects, lichens and sea creatures that were till then known only by their Latin titles. It received more than 3,000 entries, transforming the Philorhizus quadrisignatus into the intriguing Mab's lantern beetle and Peltigera venosa into the otherworldly Pixie gowns lichen. 

"I've gone for this to Windsor, the only place in the UK where Megapenthes lugens live," said one winner, greenhitman. He named the Megapenthes lugens the Queen's executioner beetle. "The executioner is to represent that it kills and eats the larvae of others. It also hints at its black colour--the hood of an executioner is traditionally black."

Natural England jointly organised the competition with the Oxford University Museum of Natural History and The Guardian.Acompetition motivated by a solemn idea--to highlight the extinction of animals and plants in the UK--ended with touches of poetry and artistic brilliance.In June, the British daily, The Guardian, announced a competition to name some lesser known and threatened insects, lichens and sea creatures that were till then known only by their Latin titles. It received more than 3,000 entries, transforming the Philorhizus quadrisignatus into the intriguing Mab's lantern beetle and Peltigera venosa into the otherworldly Pixie gowns lichen. 

"I've gone for this to Windsor, the only place in the UK where Megapenthes lugens live," said one winner, greenhitman. He named the Megapenthes lugens the Queen's executioner beetle. "The executioner is to represent that it kills and eats the larvae of others. It also hints at its black colour--the hood of an executioner is traditionally black."

Natural England jointly organised the competition with the Oxford University Museum of Natural History and The Guardian.We are a voice to you; you have been a support to us. Together we build journalism that is independent, credible and fearless. You can further help us by making a donation. This will mean a lot for our ability to bring you news, perspectives and analysis from the ground so that we can make change together.Comments are moderated and will be published only after the site moderator's approval. Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name. Selected comments may also be used in the 'Letters' section of the Down To Earth print edition.