  Not making the grade Flawed grading prevents Vidarbha cotton farmers from getting the highest-ever support price   

On December 4, some 200 farmers arrived at the cotton procurement centre in Yavatmal tehsil of Maharashtra, with about 60 tonnes of cotton 
loaded in carts and tractor trolleys. They demanded the minimum support price (msp) of Rs 3,000 per 100 kg 
promised by the Centre.    

This sent the employees of the Maharashtra Cotton Federation, the nodal body for procuring cotton in the state, in a tizzy. While farmers said their 
cotton had the average fibre length, also called staple length, of 28 mm required to qualify for the rate of Rs 3,000 per 100 kg, the federation 
employees argued that the micronear quality of the cotton, indicating strength, fell short of the standard. After a heated debate, one trolley-load of 
cotton was procured at Rs 3,000.The federation promised to send samples of the remaining cotton to Nagpur for tests.  

Suryakant Gade Patil, the president of the state marketing board  called the Agriculture Produce Market Committee  in Yavatmal tehsil, who led 
the farmers, alleged the procurement centre in Pandharkawda tehsil of Yavatmal district was paying farmers Rs 3,000 per 100 kg without quality 
check, while elsewhere in the state farmers were getting a lower rate for good quality cotton. One of the three farmers of Yavatmal tehsil who had 
sold their cotton at Pandharkawda for Rs 3,000 per 100 kg,   Sheshrao Pawar   admitted, "The land in our village Bothbodan is inferior and our 
cotton is also low quality."  

The expectancy created by the record   msp  of Rs 3,000 died down as soon as procurement by the Maharashtra 
Cotton Federation and the Cotton Corporation of India (cci), the central procuring agency, started on November 1, a 
month later than usual. Farmers at all centres in the state, except in Pandharkawda, are not getting more than Rs 2,850 per 100 kg. In many parts 
of Maharashtra's cotton belt Vidarbha, infamous for suicides, procurement was repeatedly suspended due to cloudy weather, running up farmers' 
transport cost. The local media reported that many farmers were selling in panic at reduced prices because of the closures.  

"Last year when we sold our cotton the price was barely Rs 2,400 per 100 kg. It rose to Rs 3,500 after farmers had sold out. This year we hoped 
for a better deal, but now they are not even paying  msp," said farmer Madhukar Jhunge of Nimgaon village in 
Wardha district, whose 900 kg of cotton was priced at Rs 2,850 per 100 kg.  

By November 24, about 223.1 million kg of cotton had been procured in Maharashtra, according to the Cotton Federation. Private traders had 
bought 77.4 million kg, while the federation, on behalf of agri-cooperative major  nafed, had purchased 34.1 million 
kg.  cci  had bought 111.8 million kg. 
 Maximum confusion     
While private buyers blame the reduced price on the international slump in demand for cotton, officials of government agencies say it is because 
of the low quality of cotton. At the state marketing board in Wardha, grader S U Charjan said, "In most places we are receiving cotton of up to 28 
mm staple length, hence the price." Charjan grades cotton for the Cotton Federation. A  cci  procurer, who refused 
to be named, agreed.    

In Nagpur, Cotton Federation president M P Hirani said, "The maximum  msp  of Rs 3,000 is conditional to a 28.5 
staple length, micronear level of 35 and moisture content of 8 per cent or less.


 


Mohta Ginning and Pressing Factory in Wardha is going slow on procurement 



We   have publicized these rules through newspapers, TV and 
handbills, but farmers do not understand them."  msp  for medium-staple is Rs 2,500 per 100 kg.    

Farmers dismiss the quality argument. Anil Pachpore of Datala village in Buldhana district, said, "The cotton in our village has staple length 
between 29.25 mm and 32 mm. Still we are getting Rs 2,800 per 100 kg. No grading is taking place here. The price is fixed." 
  Market play    
Traders and spinning mill owners say even the price at which they are buying is unrealistic. Since the announcement of cotton  msps--up to 47 per cent higher than the previous year's--the cotton price in the international market has crashed by Rs 
500 per 100 kg.    

"Taking into account the worldwide recession, the  msp  is unrealistic," said Pramod Shende, the deputy speaker of 
the Maharashtra Assembly and chairperson of the cooperative spinning mill Indira Sahakari Soot Girni in Wardha. Asked why then the mill 
procured cotton at rates from Rs 2,860 to Rs 3,011 per 100 kg, Shende said it would result in a loss for the mill. Yogendra Fattepuria, cotton 
trader and owner of the Paras Cotton Ginning and Pressing Factory in Wardha, said he could not make purchases at all this year because of the 
high price. "During the last season the price of bales (roughly 170 kg and 10 times of raw cotton's) had gone up from Rs 19,000 to Rs 28,000 
between January and May, while  msp  was Rs 2,030. This year  msp  is Rs 3,000, but 
the price of bales has dropped to Rs 22,500 in Maharashtra," he said.  

On the condition of anonymity, a procurement officer at Wardha said  cci    could lose Rs 1,500 crore.  

Vijay Jawandhia, an activist belonging to the Shetkari Sanghatana, a farmers' movement in Maharashtra, said mill owners were wrongly linking 
their problems to  msp. "The mills have been reaping the benefits of the low cotton price in the international market 
sustained by US subsidies, but they grudge the little protection our farmers have in the form of  msp," said 
Jawandhia. He demanded the government provide an export subsidy on cotton to ease the pressure on farmers and mills.  

Farmers insist the support price is meant to protect farmers from market ups and downs. "This year the support price should have been Rs 4,000 
in view of the repeated agricultural disasters," said Shrirang Gholve of Dorli village in Yavatmal. Farmers are in financial distress owing to the 
soybean pest attack and drought followed by  lalya, a disease that turns cotton leaves rust-coloured and brings down the yield sharply. 
"Due to  lalya  farmers who used to reap about 1.5 tonnes of cotton per hectare (ha) in this area are harvesting half a tonne. There are 
going to be more loans and suicides," said Gholve.    

Activists allege the government is using every trick in the book to favour traders over farmers. Chandrakant Wankhede, a Nagpur-based writer 
and veteran activist of Shetkari Sanghatana, said, "Political pressure forced the government to raise the price, but now it is delaying procurement 
and putting absurd conditions like buying cotton of only a certain grade and only allowing buyers who own ginning-pressing units."    

Gajanan Amdabadkar, a Washim-based activist of the group, said, "The local market has turned unfavourable for farmers because under 
industry pressure the import duty on cotton was scrapped. If the duty is reimposed, the local prices could go up."
  Inconsistent grading     
Whatever the market condition, the farming community has lost faith in the grading mechanism.
 At Yavatmal, farmers point out that the test of 
micronear quality, which beat down prices, was not carried out in the presence of farmers. "We don't know when the tests were carried out," said 
Gade Patil. "We were just told the results."  

Hirani denied the allegation, saying, "There are labs in Nagpur and Akola where samples are tested for micronear quality every week." He said 
the micronear quality is decided zone-wise on the basis of randomly selected samples because testing all samples would be too costly and 
time-consuming. "nafed  will check every bale before taking possession, and low-quality bales would be rejected. 
Officials responsible will lose their jobs," Hirani said.  

If quality checks are so rigorous, ask farmers, how is it that those with poor quality cotton got the maximum  msp  at 
Pandharkawda? Gade Patil, who plans to file a writ petition on the issue of  msp, said, "We demand that grading 
mechanisms be made transparent. The high  msp  had raised farmers' hopes, but the grading system has made a 
hoax out    of    it."   We are a voice to you; you have been a support to us. Together we build journalism that is independent, credible and fearless. You can further help us by making a donation. This will mean a lot for our ability to bring you news, perspectives and analysis from the ground so that we can make change together.Comments are moderated and will be published only after the site moderator's approval. Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name. Selected comments may also be used in the 'Letters' section of the Down To Earth print edition.