  Pay tax to get waterProperty tax defaulters of  Tiruchirapally city in Tamil Nadu have been asked to clear their dues by  March 31 or go without water. 

At the end of each financial year, the  city municipality threatens to cut the water supply of tax defaulters;  this year is no exception. The fear tactic has worked. 

"Two years ago we cut off the water supply of some properties so that  people take us seriously," the municipality spokesperson said. He added  the response to the public notice for clearing house tax arrears has  been good but refused to disclose how much money has been collected. The  corporation is faced with a budget deficit of Rs 21.49 crore in the  financial year 2010-11 and the tax collection drive, it is hoped, will  bridge the shortfall. Besides, the corporation has to pay Rs 5 crore to  the Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board for an underground  drainage system that is under construction. Municipal officials said  they plan to extend the underground sewerage system and augment water  supply through loans and by availing funds under the national urban  renewal mission.
Property tax defaulters of  Tiruchirapally city in Tamil Nadu have been asked to clear their dues by  March 31 or go without water. 

At the end of each financial year, the  city municipality threatens to cut the water supply of tax defaulters;  this year is no exception. The fear tactic has worked. 

"Two years ago we cut off the water supply of some properties so that  people take us seriously," the municipality spokesperson said. He added  the response to the public notice for clearing house tax arrears has  been good but refused to disclose how much money has been collected. The  corporation is faced with a budget deficit of Rs 21.49 crore in the  financial year 2010-11 and the tax collection drive, it is hoped, will  bridge the shortfall. Besides, the corporation has to pay Rs 5 crore to  the Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board for an underground  drainage system that is under construction. Municipal officials said  they plan to extend the underground sewerage system and augment water  supply through loans and by availing funds under the national urban  renewal mission.We are a voice to you; you have been a support to us. Together we build journalism that is independent, credible and fearless. You can further help us by making a donation. This will mean a lot for our ability to bring you news, perspectives and analysis from the ground so that we can make change together.Comments are moderated and will be published only after the site moderator's approval. Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name. Selected comments may also be used in the 'Letters' section of the Down To Earth print edition.