  Tuber troubleEconomic slowdown may hit potato farming in developing countries 

THE  Food and Agriculture Organization (fao) has warned that the booming potato production in developing countries may receive a setback due to global economic slowdown.  

In its year-end review titled 'New Light on a Hidden Treasure,' released in December 2008 to commemorate the end of the International Year of Potato,fao  said economic slowdown may reduce flow of investment and assistance to developing countries. This includes reduced  Support to agriculture that will directly affect potato cultivation. The report also said that developed countries already impose stiff tariffs on imported potato products, may be tempted to raise trade barriers.   

The banking crisis on the other hand, will leave many farmers with no credit to invest in production in 2009.  

Potato is an important staple food  and cash crop in developed countries. It has been recommended as a food security crop to help low-income farmers tide over food crises. As per  fao  statistics, potato is the world's number one non-cereal food crop.  

A vigorous new agenda for potato research and development aimed at protecting the food security of developing countries is needed, said NeBambi Lutaladio, coordinator of  fao's International Year of Potato 2008 secretariat.  

To promote potato production,  fao  recommends the 'Cusco Challenge' promoted by the International Potato Centre in Peru. The challenge urges framing a new research agenda for increasing potato yields, improving quality and making them pest and disease resistant. Lutaladio said farmer access to credit and production inputs, and links to agro-processing and markets is equally important.   

Potato is seen as a means to achieve the first Millennium Development Goal--end poverty and hunger.   We are a voice to you; you have been a support to us. Together we build journalism that is independent, credible and fearless. You can further help us by making a donation. This will mean a lot for our ability to bring you news, perspectives and analysis from the ground so that we can make change together.Comments are moderated and will be published only after the site moderator's approval. Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name. Selected comments may also be used in the 'Letters' section of the Down To Earth print edition.